                       

                       
 
Copyright @ 2024 Hustle FundVC 
All rights reserved. No part of  this book may be reproduced or used 
in any manner without the prior written permission of  the copyright 
owner, except for the use of  brief  quotations in a book review.  
If  youÕd like to share the book, share this link: 
bit.ly/RaiseMillions
  
Written byTam Pham 
Edited by Kera DeMars 
Reviewed by ElizabethYin 
Cover art byTam Pham 
hustlefund.vc 
 Ñ hello@hustlefundvc.com 

                       
Introduction
 
 
5
Who is Hustle Fund?
 
 
6
This book is educational and actionable
 
 
8
How the fundraising process works
 
 
9
Should you even raise money?
 
 
9
Fundraising stages explained
 
 
11
Angel investors vs. venture capitalists
 
 
15
Incorporate your company in Delaware
 
 
20
Breaking down equity, SAFEs, and dilution
 
 
22
How to determine a valuation for your startup
 
 
28
High valuations arenÕt always a good thing
 
 
31
How cap tables, shares, and vesting all work together
 
 
33
Be aware of  the current market conditions
 
 
38
Best times of  the year to fundraise
 
 
42
The essentials of a killer pitch deck
 
 
46
Team
 
 
47
Problem
 
 
50
Solution
 
 
53
Market
 
 
56
Traction
 
 
58
Keep your pitch deck short
 
 
61
How to actually design a captivating pitch deck
 
 
63
Build relationships with investors
 
 
64

                       
Make authentic relationships in business
 
 
65
Where to meet investors
 
 
67
Find warm intros or craft your cold email
 
 
69
Create your elevator pitch
 
 
75
Pitch to investors
 
 
78
How to run your 
Þ
rst meeting with aVC
 
 
78
Questions that founders should ask VCs
 
 
89
Follow up immediately after the call
 
 
92
Create your investor CRM
 
 
95
Create an investor newsletter
 
 
104
How to ask for feedback if  the investor says no
 
 
112
What to do if  you arenÕt hearing back from investors
 
 
113
What to do after an investor verbally commits
 
 
117
Do your due diligence on investors
 
 
117
What to expect when youÕre expectingVC funding
 
 
121
What investors look for in a data room
 
 
125
HereÕs how youÕll actually receive the money
 
 
128
What to say to your team after a successful fundraise
 
 
130
Conclusion
 
 
134
Cheat Sheet
 
 
135
Resources
 
 
142
Acknowledgments
 
 
143
Glossary
 
144

                       
CHAPTER ONE
 
Introduction
 
In the past, raising money for a startup was reserved for an ÒeliteÓ 
group of  people. If  you werenÕt born into a family of  entrepreneurs, 
or grew up in an area like SiliconValley, you would have had no idea 
how to raise money.This meant the ÒeliteÓ group of  people were the 
only ones with the opportunity to fundraise and build billion-dollar 
companies, while everyone else had to struggle to 
Þ
gure things out.  
Well, not anymore.  
We wrote this book to bring transparency to the world of  
fundraising. So whether youÕre a solo founder from India, a small 
team inArgentina, or a fresh college graduate from Minnesota, youÕll 
learn how weÕve helped thousands of  
Þ
rst-time founders raise 
millions of  dollars.  

                       
Who is Hustle Fund? 
My name isTam and IÕm one of  the writers at 
Hustle Fund
, a venture 
capital 
Þ
rm that invests in pre-seed software startups. Our mission is 
to democratize wealth through startups by catalyzing capital, 
knowledge, and networks in startup ecosystems globally.  
 
Our team is made up of  founders, operators, and investors.WeÕve 
invested in 500 (as of January 2024) companies thanks to a deals 
team that reviews 1,000 pitch decks every month. On a personal 
level, IÕve been writing about fundraising every week for two years to 
thousands of  entrepreneurs via our newsletter, 
The Founder 
Playbook
.  
WeÕve been on both sides of  the table Ð raising money as 
entrepreneurs and investing in talented founders Ð so we know a 
thing or two about raising capital.The people who taught me 
everything I know about fundraising are the co-founders and 
general partners (GPs) of  Hustle Fund, whom IÕm honored to 
introduce below.  
 

                       
Eric Bahn
 (left) founded an education company called Beat the 
GMAT, which was acquired in 2012. He later became a partner at 
500 Startups and a Product Manager at Instagram. His mom is still 
disappointed that heÕs not a doctor. Eric is also weirdly obsessed 
with minivans. 
ElizabethYin
 (middle) co-founded and ran an ad-tech company 
called LaunchBit that was acquired in 2014. She later became a 
partner at 500 Startups where she invested in seed-stage companies 
and ran the MountainView accelerator. Elizabeth loves hippos and 
roller coasters. 
Shiyan Koh
 (right) worked as a Senior InvestmentAssociate for 
BridgewaterAssociates. She later became theVP of  Business 
Operations and Corporate Development at NerdWallet (employee 
#10), a consumer 
Þ
nance business that she helped scale from 10 to 
450 employees. Shiyan loves factoids and weird humans. 
TheyÕre three of  the sharpest people that IÕve ever met. IÕll be using 
their names throughout the book. So if  you see the names ÒEricÓ, 
ÒElizabethÓ, or ÒShiyanÓ, just know that IÕm referring to one of  our 
super smart GPs.  
 

                       
This book is educational and actionable  
The number one thing we believe is that 
great founders can look 
like anyone and come from anywhere
. Based on circumstances 
beyond their control, many entrepreneurs are missing the tactical 
knowledge to build an investor network and raise money.  
This book will dive deep into practical questions like: 
!
Should I raise from angel investors or venture capitalists? 
!
What do all the fundraising stages mean?  
!
What do equity, SAFEs, and dilution mean? 
!
How do I determine my startupÕs valuation?  
!
Why are cap tables, shares, and vesting so important?  
!
Where should I incorporate my company? 
!
When is the best time to start fundraising? 
!
What exactly should I include in my pitch deck?  
!
How should I structure my 
Þ
rst meeting with an investor? 
!
What questions will early-stageVCs ask me?  
!
How do I build authentic relationships with investors?  
!
What happens if  an investor says no or ghosts me?  
!
What should I expect after an investor verbally commits?  
And so much more. If  youÕre a 
Þ
rst-time founder building a tech 
startup, this book will teach you how to fundraise from the pre-seed 
stage all the way to your SeriesA.  
Ready? Let Õs dive in. 
 

                       
CHAPTER TWO
 
How the fundraising 
process works 
Before you devote the next several months to fundraising, we must 
start with the most crucial question of  all. 
 
Should you even raise money?
 
Not every business should raise money.  
Founders have to give up partial ownership of  their company when 
they raise money.That percentage could be worth a ton of  money 
when you go public or get acquired down the line.And once you 
start selling part of  your company, these investors become your 
business partners.This means they will have opinions about how the 
business should operate, which may or may not align with your 
vision. 

                       
So if  you can get away with securing money through bootstrapping, 
crowdfunding, government programs, banks, or even alternative 
lending models like 
Paintbrush
É we actually recommend not 
fundraising to keep 100% ownership of  your company. 
 
So, what type of  businesses 
should
 raise money?Typically high-
growth tech startups that hope to: 
1.
sell their business for hundreds of  millions of  dollars, or 
2.
go public, also known as an initial public offering (IPO)  
If  your goal is to sell your company for a smaller exit, it may be ok in 
some cases, but it Õs likely that your investors will be disappointed. 
Because theyÕre looking for a very high return for their capital Ð like 
100x their investment Ð so they want to invest in founders that are 
aiming for a big success.  
If  that Õs you, keep reading.YouÕre in the right place.  
I know this is a weird start to a book about 
fundraising, especially from a venture capital 
Þ
rm.  
But we want to be fully transparent on what Õs 
actually best for you, the hard-working entrepreneur.

                       
Fundraising stages explained 
Founders typically raise money in stages. 
1.
Pre-seed 
2.
Seed 
3.
Post-seed 
4.
SeriesA 
5.
Series B  
6.
Series C 
7.
Series D-G (if  needed) 
8.
Initial Public Offering (IPO) 
It usually takes several months to start and complete a fundraising 
round. Since this book is written for early-stage founders, weÕre 
going to primarily focus on the 
pre-seed to SeriesA stages
.  
Pre-seed
 
The pre-seed stage is the 
Þ
rst round of  funding that founders raise. 
People also call it an 
angel round
 or a 
friends and family round
. 
Teams at the pre-seed stage are just getting started.This is when 
founders quit their jobs to go full-time on their startup. Investors 
want to see you launch a minimum viable product (MVP), a basic 
version of  your product that Õs designed to quickly gather user 
feedback and improve your offering.  

                       
They also want to see data around customer discovery that proves 
what youÕre solving is indeed a big problem and these customers 
are willing to pay to solve this problem.You probably donÕt have 
many (or any) real users or revenue yet. So investors who put in 
money are betting on your team and the market youÕre in.  
These investment rounds are typically small, ranging between 
$100k - $1M
.The money will likely come from your family, friends, 
angel investors, and pre-seed funds like 
Hustle Fund
 (that Õs us!).The 
goal at this stage is to get enough money to go full-time on your 
startup, build your product, and start 
generating some traction
. 
Seed
 
The seed stage typically happens when youÕve shipped your MVP 
and have feedback from real users.You could have a consumer app 
with millions of  users. Or you may have a B2B business with some 
enterprise customers in your pilot program.This is the stage where 
you're validating the market demand for your product and making 
solid traction. 
Seed rounds typically range from 
$500k to $3M
.The goal at this 
stage is to generate traction and 
Þ
nd product-market 
Þ
t.The typical 
traction range is ~$10k+/month.  

                       
Post-seed
 
The post-seed stage (also known as Òpre-SeriesAÓ) is a gray area 
between seed and seriesA, kind of  like the awkward teenage phase. 
YouÕve made major progress as a seed-stage company, but not quite 
enough to raise a SeriesA.You may hear people call this round the 
mango seed stage
 or 
avocado seed stage
.
 
Before you get to SeriesA, you may need to hit speci
Þ
c metrics 
around retention and engagement. Or hit certain revenue 
milestones, or acquire a certain number of  users.The post-seed 
round is your opportunity to achieve these goals. 
Post-seed rounds can range from 
$1M to $5M
.This can be an 
extension of  your seed round with many of  your previous investors, 
or separate rounds with new investors.The goal at this stage is to 
provide more evidence/data that your company is ready for a big 
seriesA round.The typical traction range at this stage is ~$100k/
month.  

Not everyone who plans to raise a SeriesA will need to raise this 
round. If  you have enough runway from previous fundraising 
rounds, or from your earned revenue, you may be able to skip 
this round entirely.

                       
SeriesA
 
You know youÕre ready to raise your SeriesA when youÕve found 
product-market 
Þ
t, that sweet spot where your product 
Þ
ts so well 
with what customers want.You have strong evidence that you can 
capture a decent share of  the huge market.YouÕve shown that you 
can recruitA-players and have a solid team that can execute your 
vision. 
SeriesA rounds are more substantial than previous rounds, ranging 
from 
$5M to $10M
.They typically involve a 
lead investor
, the 
Þ
rst 
and main investor in a funding round who puts half  or more of  the 
money into the round.This stage is also when you typically form a 
board of  directors (outside of  your co-founders), to whom you'll 
report quarterly on your progress.The typical traction range at this 
stage is $2-3M/year.  
To sum it up
 
These numbers are the typical ranges that weÕve seen in the venture 
world. But just because a company has these traction marks doesnÕt 
guarantee it Õll be able to raise money successfully. Factors like your 
location, type of  business, business model and more will impact 
your fundraising strategy. 
 

                       
Angel investors vs. venture 
capitalists
 
What is an angel investor?
 
An 
angel investor
 is an individual who has accredited investor status. 
That means they have a million dollars of  investable assets or a really 
large salary ($200k+/yr).Angels donÕt have to be techies or experts 
in your industry.They could be your dentist or a friendÕs mom. 
One of  the main reasons to work with angels is that they make 
decisions about where to spend their money based solely on their 
own preferences.They donÕt have investors to consider, business 
partners to consult, or of
Þ
ce politics to deal with.They can write you 
a check after one meeting if  they like you and your idea. It Õs their 
money. 
Angels can help with things other than money as well. Many angel 
investors are experienced operators who can help you solve real 
problems. So if  you need guidance on how to build a marketing 
team or how to create a product roadmap, an angel who has 
experience in those areas could be a highly valuable partner. 
One thing to consider before raising money from angels is that they 
typically write smaller checks, between $1k to $25k.This means that 
if  youÕre raising $1M, youÕll have to close a lot of  deals if  you only 

                       
stick with angel investors.Another downside is that angels might not 
be able to participate in your later rounds when the check sizes get 
bigger and the valuations get higher. 
What is a venture capitalist?
 
On the other hand, 
venture capitalists (VCs)
 can write larger checks 
than angels, ranging from $50K to millions of  dollars, with the 
opportunity to participate in their portfolioÕs later rounds. HereÕs 
how: a venture capital 
Þ
rm raises money from their investors called 
Limited Partners (LPs)
.ThenVCs invest all that capital into startups 
and divide the returns among all the LPs (and themselves). 
VCs can be extremely well-connected.They often introduce their 
portfolio companies to otherVCs, potential business partners, and 
even new hires. In later stages,VCs can also be great board 
members to help guide the next chapters of  the business. 
The fact thatVCs have LPs is both a burden and a blessing.A 
blessing because LPs enableVCs to do their work.Without LPs,VCs 
wouldnÕt have the capital to invest in startups. But theyÕre also a 
burden. BecauseVCs are essentially stewards of  their LPsÕ money, 
theyÕre obligated to invest only in deals they truly believe will give 
them a 100x return.This means if  aVC invests in a startup at a $1M 
valuation, they are hoping that your business will exit or IPO for a 
$100M valuation.  

                       
The math of  venture capital can be complicated.All you need to 
really know is thatVCs invest in dozens of  companies expecting the 
majority of  them to fail.The 1-2 startups that give investors a 100x 
return will pull up the value of  the entire portfolio.  
For example, imagine aVC 
Þ
rm invested $50k into 100 early-stage 
startups for a total of  $5M. Ninety-nine of  these startups failed. But 
the one company that succeeded just happened to be Uber, a 
company that Õs worth over $100B today.The 
Þ
rmÕs $50k investment 
in Uber would be worth hundreds of  millions of  dollars, which more 
than makes up for the initial $5M investment.  
This desire to show big returns to their LPs gives theVC industry a 
bad reputation. SomeVCs put extreme pressure on founders to 
grow at a rapid, unsustainable pace. On the other hand, angel 
investors arenÕt generally looking for a speci
Þ
c ROI.  
If  they love you and your idea, they may invest even if  they think 
theyÕll only get a 2x or 3x return. Since angel investors have no 
outside investors to consider, they can afford to be more patient in 
your companyÕs growth.  
However, to chase big returns, some angels may still pressure you to 
sell your company if  that Õll guarantee them a modest 2x return, or 
advise you to shut it down entirely.  

                       
So who should you raise from?
 
Any business that expects to exit and aims to provide its investors 
with a meaningful return on investment (ROI) should consider raising 
from angelsÉ even if  they also plan to raise fromVCs. HereÕs why. 
Angel investors are more accessible, will give you money faster, and 
often roll up their sleeves to help your startup.They can make intros 
to other investors (which builds momentum during fundraising) and 
theyÕre likely not running a fund. 
While anyVC-backable business should strongly consider angel 
investors, several business models are notVC-backable.And those 
businesses might be great for angels. For example:  
!
Media companies 
!
E-commerce businesses 
!
Food and beverage businesses 
!
Hardware businesses/wearables 
!
Brick and mortar businesses 
These are business models thatVCs don't typically invest in because 
the overhead is too high to have a meaningful exit.Those types of  
businesses are more likely to see a 2-10x exit than a 100x exit. 
VCs are looking for that one big winner like the next Uber or 
Instagram. If  youÕre aiming to be a billion-dollar company one day, 

                       
VCs tend to be great partners in the later stages since they can 
provide you with more capital and direction when youÕre scaling fast. 
But let Õs state the obvious: a 100x return is extremely tough to 
accomplish. Investors know this, and they only invest in companies 
that have the potential to scale fast.There are lots of  things that 
make a business scalable. But since you donÕt have all day, here are 
the top three things we look for. 
1.
Unit Economics 
Ð the cost of  acquiring and onboarding a 
customer compared to how much money you make from that 
customer 
2.
CustomerAcquisition
 Ð your ability to acquire customers at 
scale  
3.
Exponential Growth 
Ð when your revenue is increasing at a 
faster rate than your incurring costs. 
Both angel investors andVCs would love to invest in a startup with 
great unit economics, low customer acquisition costs, and rapid 
exponential growth.We recommend raising from angel investors 
Þ
rst for speed.Then considerVCs if  you have a business that can 
potentially scale to deliver a 100x exit. 
 
Startups in the ÒviceÓ categories (think alcohol, cannabis, 
gambling) will likely have more success with angels thanVC 
firms.This is becauseVCs usually have a Òno viceÓ clause that 
they adhere to.Whereas angels can invest in whatever they want.

                       
Incorporate your company in 
Delaware 
Hustle Fund GP Eric Bahn made a huge blunder when he started his 
education startup: he formed a California LLC instead of  a Delaware 
C-corp.When Eric later sold this business, his tax accountant told 
him that if  he had switched to a Delaware C-Corp, he would have 
saved a 
ton of  money
 on taxes upon his exit.  
Learn from EricÕs mistake and incorporate your company in 
Delaware. HereÕs why Delaware C-Corps are so advantageous.  
Bene
Þ
t #1: Delaware is business-owner friendly 
Delaware has corporate governance laws that are basically simple 
rules around compliance and in cases of  things like lawsuits.These 
laws were written to help business owners stay in business. 
Delaware is a business-favorable state. So it's more relaxed and 
easier to do business in Delaware in comparison to other parts of  
the US. 
Bene
Þ
t #2:YouÕll save a ton of  money on
 
taxes
 
ThereÕs this thing called the 
Quali
Þ
ed Small Business Stock (QSBS)
. 
If  your business is a Delaware C-Corp and has been around for more 
than 
Þ
ve years before getting acquired, you could potentially be 

                       
exempt from paying federal taxes when your company gets 
acquired or IPOs. 
That Õs a huge deal. If  Eric had converted the business to a Delaware 
C-Corp, he would have faced a much lower federal tax bill when his 
business was acquired thanks to QSBS.  
There are a lot of  potential federal tax exemptions only available for 
Delaware C-Corp businesses.This bene
Þ
t also applies to investors. 
TheyÕll be exempt from paying taxes in many scenarios thanks to 
QSBS. So everyone gets to keep more money upon an exit.  
WeÕre not lawyers. Do your research on QSBS and read all the 
nuances on DelawareÕs of
Þ
cial page. 
Bene
Þ
t #3: It Õs favorable to investors who are 
buying shares 
Imagine Eric invests in a cycling software business and it Õs doing 
really well. Like $20M in revenue every year. In this hypothetical 
situation, Eric wouldnÕt need to personally pay any taxes along the 
way even though heÕs a part owner of  the business. Eric would only 
pay taxes on the gains he makes when this startup gets acquired or 
IPOs. 
Just one of  many unusual and wonderful treatments of  taxes that 
you can 
Þ
nd with Delaware C-Corp structures. 

                       
It Õs super easy to 
ß
ip to a Delaware C-Corp 
There are lawyers and possibly automated legal services that can 
help you switch over to a Delaware C-Corp. So if  youÕre running a 
venture-backed business, switch to a Delaware C-Corp and keep 
more money upon your exit. 
Breaking down equity, SAFEs, 
and dilution
 
If  you want to fundraise, you need to know what SAFEs are and how 
dilution works. Because if  you donÕt, you may accidentally give away 
too much equity and be left with very little at the end.  
Let Õs break it down using my favorite food. Imagine you have a pizza 
in front of  you. In the beginning, you and your co-founder(s) own 
100% of  this pizza (aka your company).  
 
Photo by 
Vit Ch
 on 
Unsplash
 

                       
Now let Õs assume this pizza is worth $20.  
Your objective is to grow the value of  your pizza. It could be worth 
$20 now, but in 10 years, your pizza could be valued at $1B. So how 
do you grow the value of  the pizza?You give away slices of  the pizza 
to strategic people Ð investors, advisors, and key employees Ð who 
will massively help you. 
Every time you give away a slice of  pizza, youÕre actually giving away 
equity
 in the business. Equity means ownership in the company. So 
if  an investor has 5% of  the equity in your business, they own 5% of  
your company.  
Now, it Õs unavoidable that youÕll lose some ownership of  the pizza as 
you raise money. But these strategic people that you gave slices to 
can help bring the valuation of  the entire pie from $20 to $1M to 
$100M and hopefully to $1B. Even if  you only own 15% (equity) of  
the pie (your company) by the end, if  it Õs valued at $1B, then your 
slice will be worth $150M. It Õll be easier to accept that you donÕt own 
the other 85% of  the pizza because your small slice is so valuable on 
its own.  
But you need to be careful about giving away your pizza slices.As 
you can see, one small slice in the beginning can be worth millions 
of  dollars down the line. Every time you give equity away means that 
you (the founder) will have less ownership over your own business.  

                       
Equity will translate to dollars when you IPO or get acquired, so you 
want to maintain enough equity to stay motivated to keep working 
on the business. So hereÕs the million-dollar question: How much 
pizza should you expect to give away when you raise money?  
This will depend largely on the amount your startup raises and the 
valuation at which you raise.We typically see founders give away 
10-20% of  their pizza per fundraising stage.The gold standard is for 
the founders to still own the majority (more than 50%) of  the pizza 
after their SeriesA round. It Õs common to lose the majority by the 
time you raise your Series B. But as I mentioned earlier, this shouldnÕt 
bother you if  the value of  the pie is high enough. 
 
What SAFEs are and why you should care
 
SAFE 
stands for Òsimple agreement for future equity.Ó SAFEs arenÕt 
slices of  pizza directly, but think of  it like a ticket for a slice of  pizza. 
You give these tickets to investors, which gives them the right to 
come back to you later to claim their slice (assuming the pizza is still 
alive and edible). 
In non-pizza terms, a SAFE isnÕt equity you sell to your investors, 
rather it Õs the promise of  equity in the future.Think of  SAFEs almost 
like an IOU; youÕre not issuing any equity yetÉ but once you have an 
equity 
Þ
nancing round, an acquisition, or an IPO, that SAFE will get 
converted into equity. If  your startup crashes and burns, the SAFEs 
are worthless. 

                       
There are two kinds of  SAFEs: 
a pre-money SAFE and a post-money 
SAFE
.WhenY Combinator created the SAFE in 2013, it started as a 
pre-money safe.This is important Ð remember this. 
These SAFEs were open-source documents that have become the 
standard for founders to use when raising money.Without a SAFE, 
founders had to pay lawyers to draft a new contract from scratch. 
This was expensive and complicated to manage. SAFEs made it 
easier and more cost effective for founders to raise their earliest 
rounds. 
But it had an unintended consequence. Founders wondered, 
ÒA  
priced equity round takes a lot of  paperwork, negotiation, and legal 
fees, which can easily cost me $20k.Why donÕt I raise my entire 
round via pre-money SAFEs? I can just download it from theYC 
website and keep my costs low.Ó 
So founders started raising $2-3M rounds via SAFEs. But once they 
were ready to raise a priced equity round, founders weren't sure 
how much of  the company theyÕd actually sold.TheyÕd sliced the 
pizza in all kinds of  weird shapes and sizes and never kept track of  
who owned what because of  the nature of  pre-money SAFEs. 
 
By the time all those people with pizza tickets come back to claim 
their slices, the founders may realize they have the smallest slice out 
of  everyoneÉ which can kill their incentive to grow the value of  the 
pizza.  

                       
We know a founder who raised a bunch of  money via pre-money 
SAFEs. He didnÕt realize his equity had been diluted so much until 
he tried to raise his equity round.This founder discovered he only 
owned 35% of  the company at the seed stage, which is no bueno. 
We'll share exactly how all of  this works with some easy numbers 
later in this chapter. But for now, Eric offers this warning,  
ÒIt is really easy to mess up these calculations when you have so 
many different kinds of  pre-money valuations stacking on top of  each 
other with capital that you raised before your SeriesA, or whenever 
your post-money raise takes place.Ó 
Why founders are using post-money SAFEs 
instead
 
To rectify the unintended consequences,YC later introduced post-
money SAFEs.They wanted founders to have clarity on how much of  
the company theyÕre selling.  
HereÕs the magic equation: (investment) / (post-money valuation) 
!
Example #1:The founder raises $500k on a $5M post-money 
valuation. $500k / $5M = 10%.This founder has sold 10% of  
the company. 

                       
!
Example #2:The founder raises $1M on a $5M post-money 
valuation. $1M / $5M = 20%.The founder has sold 20% of  the 
company.  
The math of  what youÕve invested at the post-money valuation is 
simple and clear.This calculation is better for both the founders and 
investors because you know the exact percentage of  pizza youÕre 
giving away.  
To sum it up
 
Focus on growing the value of  your one pizza. Be strategic in who 
you sell your pizza slices to because you want to own as much of  
your company as possible.  
If  you use pre-money SAFEs, learn how to calculate and keep track 
of  how much pizza youÕve sold. Instead, use post-money SAFEs to 
have clarityÉ and sleep well at night knowing you still have enough 
pizza in the fridge to enjoy later. 
 

                       
How to determine a valuation for 
your startup
 
A 
startup valuation
 is the 
Þ
nancial value of  a startupÕs equity at a 
given point in time. In other wordsÉ how much your startup is 
worth.  
Unlike public companies Ð where the stock is listed on an exchange 
and 
ß
uctuates throughout the day based on trading activity Ð private 
startup valuations are agreed upon by the investors and the 
founder(s) when the startup goes out to fundraise. 
This valuation is based on a variety of  factors: 
!
How much revenue the business has 
!
Business experience of  the founders 
!
Competition in the market 
!
Macro market conditions 
!
Investor demand  
The last point on Òinvestor demandÓ is one you should de
Þ
nitely pay 
attention to.While the other factors do matter, a startupÕs valuation is 
not actually about how much your company is worth, but about the 
supply and investor demand of  your round
. Let me explain. 
Example #1: 
 
Imagine your goal is to raise $200k at a $1M valuation. But you 
discover that you have a lot of  investor demand. In fact, these 

                       
investors are offering a total of  $500kÉ $300k more than youÕre 
aiming to raise.  
This means you have more demand in your company than available 
equity, so you can safely increase your startupÕs valuation and still 
secure the capital youÕre looking for. 
Example #2: 
 
Imagine your goal is to raise $2M at a $5M valuation. But no one is 
interested.Then your valuation is, wellÉ $0. Because thereÕs no 
investor demand to participate in your startupÕs round.  
You canÕt raise money at a $0 valuation. But you can lower your 
valuation to a sweet spot where youÕll get to investor demand. 
Alternatively, you could improve your pitch deck to try and convert 
more investors. Or you could work to grow the business and ÒearnÓ 
your desired valuation.
 
In practical terms, determining your valuation is less about your 
ÒactualÓ worth and more about what investors are willing to pay. So 
founders can set a value for their own startups, butVCs will also 
perform due diligence to determine a valuation theyÕd feel 
comfortable investing at.The two sides may then negotiate an 
acceptable valuation for both parties.  
Still with me?  
Because there are two different kinds of  valuations that you should 
know: the pre-money valuation and the post-money valuation.
 

                       
Pre-money and post-money valuation
 
The 
pre-money valuation
 is the valuation of  the business before it 
receives any outside investment. 
The pre-money valuation doesnÕt take into consideration the money 
the founder is planning to raise. So if  a startup has a pre-money 
valuation of  $2M, and sheÕs planning to raise an additional $500K, 
her pre-money valuation is still just $2M.  
This number is important because it tells investors how much theyÕll 
need to put in to purchase their desired equity stake.The pre-money 
valuation will usually change every time the startup raises a new 
round of  
Þ
nancing.  
For instance, a seed-stage startup might raise at a $5M pre-money 
valuation.After 12-18 months of  growth, it Õll return to raise its Series 
A at a $10M pre-money valuation.The increase in pre-money 
valuation would represent the additional value the startup has 
created by acquiring more customers, improving its product, 
building its brand, etc.  
Let Õs take the example of  the company with a pre-money valuation 
of  $2M. If  an investor wants to purchase a 20% equity stake, it means 
that the investor will need to put in $500k at a $2.5M post-money 
valuation. ($500k / $2.5M = 20%).  
As the name suggests, the 
post-money valuation
 is the startupÕs 
valuation 
after
 receiving outside investment. Unlike the pre-money 
valuation, the post-money valuation is easy to determine: simply add 
the investment amount to the pre-money valuation. 

                       
A startup on a good trajectory should see its post-money valuation 
increase with every new 
Þ
nancing round (i.e., investors should view it 
as growing in value). If  the post-money valuation goes down round-
over-round, it Õs called a 
down round
 and could signal the business is 
in peril. 
High valuations arenÕt always a 
good thing
 
While high valuations leave founders with a larger percentage of  
ownership in their startup, thereÕs more to consider. 
Consideration #1: Investor incentives
 
We already know that investors can be really, really helpful. But with 
24 hours in a day, theyÕre only able to give meaningful help to their 
highest-priority investments.  So if  an investor has a 1% stake in your 
business and a 10% stake in another business, and you're at the 
same stage, which company do you think they'll dedicate more 
resources and time towards? 
Consideration #2: Startups need time to grow 
into valuations
 
Let Õs say a founder generates interest in her idea or an early version 
of  her product. She raises money at a $12M post-money valuation. 

                       
She uses that money to improve the product, acquire users, and hire 
a few people.After 8 months of  working on the business, the 
founder doesnÕt see the traction she was hoping for.And sheÕs out of  
money. She decides to raise another round of  funding. 
Only this time, investors have less conviction in her business. Since 
she hasnÕt proved that her idea is successful, they might recommend 
a lower valuation, but that can look really bad. Decreasing the 
valuation is a signal to investors that there is something wrong with 
the business.And since investors see anywhere from 10 to 1000 
pitches every month, theyÕre more likely to invest their money in a 
new company instead of  writing this founder another check.  
Ironically at the time of  this writing (January 2023) where capital is 
really tight, down rounds are not negative signals. It Õs a sign that 
someone wants to invest. So this is the exception to the rule. 
Consideration #3: Recruiting 
Most startups donÕt have the capital to offer competitive salaries to 
high-quality talent.That Õs where the ESOP comes in. By attracting 
talent with stock options, founders are able to conserve cash while 
employees feel like they have ownership of  the company.Those 
employees are incentivized to work really hard to make the business 
successful because if  the business does well, their options will be 
worth aTON of  money. Right? 

                       
HereÕs the problem: joining a team with a high valuation means that 
the price for the stock options is also high. Employees will realize 
that they canÕt actually afford to buy their options.  
Couple that with the low salary and long hours, and they wonÕt be 
incentivized at work.This can lead to ugly company culture and low 
productivity.  
The savvy people who are smart enough to ask about valuation and 
exercise price will realize that the opportunity isnÕt as good as they 
thought. So if  you have too high of  a valuation, hiring those people 
will become very dif
Þ
cult. 
How cap tables, shares, and 
vesting all work together
 
A cap table is a spreadsheet that lists all the people and entities that 
own pieces of  your company. In the beginning, there may just be 
two lines for you and your co-founder. It Õll list your names and how 
many shares you both own. 
The shares in themselves are meaningless. But they are meaningful 
when you see how much of  the pie they represent as a percentage. 
Every time you give a slice of  pizza to an investor or a key employee, 
they will be granted shares and have some equity in the pie.Their 

                       
name will then be added to the cap table with the respective % 
numbers next to their name.  
HereÕs an example of  what a cap table looks like.You can also make 
a copy of  our template 
here
.  
 
In this example, our post-money valuation is $10M. New investors 
are coming in for $2.5M.That means they now own 25% of  the 
business.The cap table also has an ESOP pool of  15% (more on 
what that is below).Which leaves the founders with 60% ownership 
after the investment round.  

                       
Founders get 
common shares
 while investors earn 
preferred shares
. 
There are three main differences. 
!
Voting power: Common shareholders get to vote on important 
company decisions whereas preferred shareholders usually 
donÕt have voting rights. 
!
Dividends: Preferred shareholders get preference on liquidity 
when the company IPOs/exits.This means they get paid out 
before the common shareholders.  
!
Risk: Common shares are a bit riskier. If  the company has to 
close down, founders will be the last to get any money back 
from what's left, whereas preferred shareholders may recoup 
some of  their money. 
Founders and employees earn shares by working for the startup, but 
their shares typically 
vest 
across four years.This means they donÕt 
get all the shares upfront when they start working at the company.  
A typical vesting schedule is as follows: 
!
The employee earns 25% of  their allocated equity after 
working for the company for 1 year 
!
Over the next 3 years, they earn the remaining 75% of  their 
equity on a monthly basis. 

                       
Once a founder or an employee has vested some shares, that Õs 
technically just a right to exercise the option to buy those shares for 
a cheap price (in most cases). Once your shares have vested, you 
can exercise or buy your options Ð pay the cheap price to get your 
shares Ð at any time that you are still at the company.  
Most people do not exercise their options as long as they are still at 
a company, because they want to wait and see as long as possible 
how the company is doing to decide whether or not to spend the 
money. People typically exercise their options when they leave the 
company, because once you leave the company, you typically forfeit 
any options that have vested that you havenÕt bought. 
If  the company is doing well, buying their vested shares is generally 
a good deal for the employee (especially early employees) because 
the price for each share is directly related to the valuation of  the 
company at the time the employee joined. So an employee who 
joined a startup early could buy their fully-vested shares at, say $.05 
per share, even if  the current valuation of  the company at that time is 
much higher. 
Vesting prevents people who only stay with the company for a 
month or two from running away with tons of  shares. Investors 
expect founders to have vesting in place for everyone.This includes 
advisors, whose shares typically vest over 1-2 years.  
You might be wondering, Ò What if  everyone stays on until their 
vesting schedule is complete and exercises all their options?ÓThen 

                       
youÕll have a 
fully diluted cap table
 where everyone who was 
allocated shares will indeed get all their shares. 
 
When you raise money from investors, they will often ask you to 
create an 
employee stock option pool (ESOP)
.This means setting 
aside some shares for your employees to incentivize them to stay 
longer and do great work. Investors typically expect founders to set 
aside 10% of  the pie for ESOP but this percentage amount can be 
negotiated. 15 years ago, this percentage was typically 15-20%, and 
we may revert back to that if  the markets get worse.  
An ESOP can dilute the cap table faster than you might expect. For 
example, if  youÕre being diluted down by 20% by the next round of  
If  investors are investing on a SAFE, they technically do not own 
shares at that point. Remember the last chapter? Investors using 
SAFEs will have a ticket to claim the pizza later, but not actually 
own the slice in that present moment. So these investors will NOT 
be added to the cap table until their SAFEs/notes convert into 
actual shares. 
This is another reason why founders don't realize how much of  
the pie everyone owns.There are investors who have invested 
money but arenÕt technically on the cap table yet.We 
recommend founders use 
Pulley
 (a plug for one of  our portfolio 
companies), which makes cap tables super easy to understand 
even if  someone invested through SAFEs.

                       
investmentAND you have to create a 10% option pool in the same 
transaction, you are actually being diluted down by 30%. If  a 
departing team member doesn't use their vested options, the 
unvested and unused options will be forfeited and added back to 
the ESOP. But still, this is more dilution than most founders realize 
when they go to raise money.  
Cap tables have been traditionally hard to organize just using 
spreadsheets, especially when you have many SAFEs and 
shareholders. It Õs rare to see founders do accurate cap table math at 
each fundraising round. Even our team of VCs can miscalculate data.  
This is why we recommend using a cap table management tool so 
you can have an accurate view on your current cap table, as well as 
compute different scenarios quickly and easily.  
Be aware of  the current market 
conditions
 
At the time of  publishing this book, it Õs the start of  2024. Fundraising 
right now is tough, especially for seriesA and beyond.The truth is 
thatVCs arenÕt investing as much in the later stages.Why the sudden 
change?  
Well, there are a lot of  factors. 

                       
1.VCs are having a harder time raising funds
 
Just like many startups,VCs have to raise money from their LPs 
(remember, an LP is someone who invests in a venture capital 
Þ
rm). 
Interest rates are high, and many LPs are opting to put their money 
into other assets like a savings account that earns interest there 
rather than invest in aVC fund.
 
This givesVCs less capital to work with, so they become more 
conservative with their cash.VCs will be extra selective about 
investing in new companies, or theyÕll focus more on reinvesting in 
and bolstering their existing portfolio companies. 
2. Companies are valued less
 
If  there are fewer investors (supply), thereÕs more competition 
amongst startups to raise money (demand).This means investors 
can usually negotiate terms that are more bene
Þ
cial for themselves 
rather than for founders. But it Õs not all sunshine and rainbows for 
investors, either. 
Founders that do raise successfully tend to have lower valuations 
than in the last few years Ð when the market favored founders over 
investors. So a company that raised a pre-seed round at a relatively 
high valuation (say, $8M), is raising their seed-round at a relatively 
lower valuation (say, $10M). Some companies are having such a hard 

                       
time raising, they might not see any increase in valuation from one 
round to the next. Or their valuation will actually go down. 
When a companyÕs valuation fails to increase, theVCs who invested 
at the earlier stages are left with a portfolio that Õs worth less than 
what they expected or planned for.A rough rule of  thumb is that 
founders should aim to double their valuation every round. 
But there is cash Ð this is not 2008
 
This section isnÕt intended to be all doom and gloom.The good 
news: 
!
Seed stage investors are less affected 
!
Deals are happening but all stages are just moving slower 
The bene
Þ
t of  a less frothy market is that it forces you to think about 
how much cash you actually need. Elizabeth suggests thinking about 
your cash needs in two ways: 
1. Stop the bleeding
 
Founders often say,
 ÒI need to raise $2M.Ó
 Do you really? Probably 
not. 
Instead, ask yourself:What is the minimum requirement to keep the 
company running? How can you reduce your burn rate? How can 
you cut expenses?Are there creative ways to generate revenue in 
the interim? 

                       
Remember: theAirbnb founders sold 
cereal boxes
 to keep the 
company alive in the early days.  
2. Long-term planning
 
If  you can stop the bleeding, then how much cash would help you 
with long-term planning?Think through your long-term vision, goals, 
metrics, product development, hiring, etc. How much capital would 
you need to hit those milestones?  
Is the answer still $2M? Maybe. Or maybe it Õs a smaller number.You 
should aim to raise enough cash to cover both your short-term and 
long-term needs. However, if  that's not possible, de
Þ
nitely prioritize 
the stop the bleeding strategy 
Þ
rst. 
 

                       
Best times of  the year to 
fundraise
 
When Eric was trying to raise money as a founder, he had no idea 
VCs were on vacation, like, all the time.VCs would auto-respond 
with OOO messages saying theyÕre skiing inJackson Hole. Or on a 
beach in Mykonos. Or Ò
Þ
nding themselvesÓ at Burning Man.  
This might sound super weird if  youÕre not from SiliconValley.Why 
areVCs always on vacation?After lots of  trial and error, we 
Þ
gured 
out the best timeVCs are active to take meetings with founders. 
Good:January Ð February
 
The 
Þ
rst part of  the year is a good window of  time to start 
fundraising. However, there are a few important things to note: 
!
The 
Þ
rst week of January is an extension of  the end-of-year 
holidays. So if  you raise in the new year, wait until the 2nd or 
3rd week of January. 
!
ManyVCs have kids in school who have mid-winter breaks in 
the middle of  February.This is the perfect opportunity to take 
the family toAspen orJackson Hole for a mini ski vacation 
forcing them out of  the of
Þ
ce.  

                       
Best: March Ð May
 
Spring is the best time to fundraise.There arenÕt too many major 
holidays.The weather is amazing.Yeah, thereÕs usually a spring 
break but mostVCs are working. 
It Õs normal forVCs to meet you in person outside at the Rosewood 
Hotel. Or take a walk with you somewhere on Sand Hill Road. Or 
grab coffee together at Coupa Cafe in PaloAlto.You know, Silicon 
Valley things. 
Decent:June ÐJuly
 
School is out!VCs usually go on another vacation to spend time with 
family. But there is still some activity happening in bothJune and 
July. Besides the 4th of July holiday,VCs are fairly responsive.  
All in all, the 
Þ
rst half  of  the calendar year is a pretty good time to 
start the fundraising process.  
Worst:August
 
August is the absolute worst time to raise money.VCs basically take 
the entire month off  for summer vacation.TheyÕre somewhere in 
Ibiza, Mykonos, or Croatia enjoying the sunshine. 

                       
ThereÕs also Burning Man at the end of August.This is whenVCs go 
off  to the desert wearing ridiculous costumes and return after a 
week covered in dust. So youÕre probably not going to get any 
meetings withVCs inAugust.  
Good: September Ð November
 
This is EricÕs favorite window to fundraise.VC 
Þ
rms host annual 
meetings in the Fall to bring their LPs together and they also invite 
some of  their portfolio founders to meet everyone. 
Investors rush to do deals before the end of  the year.ThereÕs great 
activity happening everywhere.  
Bad:AfterThanksgiving Ð December
 
In the United States, we have this major holiday calledThanksgiving. 
It happens every year on the 3rdThursday of  November. It Õs a pretty 
big deal. Schools are closed. No one really wants to work that week. 
But it turns out that the feeling of  not working basically extends 
through the end of  the year. 
Of  course, mostVCs come back to work afterThanksgiving. But Eric 
has been inVC of
Þ
ces around this time.ThereÕs eggnog and snacks 
everywhere. Michael Buble's music is playing in the background. 
The energy is super low key.  

                       
VCs may take a few meetings here and there. But theyÕre not doing 
that much.AndVCs are off  again for Christmas break until early 
January.Where the cycle starts all over again. 
These are not hard-and-fast rules
 
We are speaking generally of  theVC world. Getting a fast response 
fromVCs depends a lot on theVCs themselves.The Hustle Fund 
team works year-round because weÕre young and hungry to make 
big things happen. NewerVCs are more like startups, so weÕre a bit 
different from other funds. 
Outside of VCs, angel investors tend to be active year-round, too. 
Keep this tip in your back pocket if  youÕre looking to close a round in 
a month whenVCs are out of  of
Þ
ce. 

                       
CHAPTER THREE
 
The essentials of a 
killer pitch deck
 
ThereÕs a popular saying that ideas without execution are useless. 
Well, I have a new twist to this quote.  
ÒIdeas that you canÕt clearly communicate to others are useless.Ó 
If  you canÕt communicate your ideas, no one will understand you. 
And if  no one understands you, no one will buy your product or 
invest in your company.This means great communication is 
everything.  
After reviewing thousands of  pitch decks and raising $100M for 
Hustle Fund, Eric has deduced the 
Þ
ve most essential parts for a 
great pitch.  

                       
1.
team 
2.
problem 
3.
solution 
4.
market 
5.
traction 
Your odds of  success skyrocket if  you have just these 
Þ
ve slides 
nailed down. Let Õs break down each one.  
Team
 
The most important thing Eric cares about in pre-seed companies is 
the team. Since pre-seed startups often have no customers or 
traction, thereÕs very little to judge them on, outside of  the people 
behind the idea. Because at the end of  the day, investors are not just 
investing in your idea; they are investing in you and your co-
founders.  
Eric wants to see two main things: 
1. Relevant skills + background
 
Let's say you have an idea for a business that would eradicate 
COVID. Obviously, this is a pretty intriguing idea: COVID is a big 
problem and people would almost certainly be willing to pay for a 
solution. But it doesn't matter how big the problem is if  an investor 
doesn't believe you're the right team to solve it.
 

                       
So if  you want to go into the COVID-eradication business, but your 
background is in social media marketing... no investor will back you. 
But if  your background is in developing medicine and your co-
founder's background is in bio-medical sales... that's a different 
story. 
When you're pitching your team to an investor, consider how you 
can convince her that 
your team is uniquely positioned to solve this 
problem
.And that con
Þ
dence won't just come from pedigree. 
Going to a fancy school or working at a brand-name tech company 
won't cut it. 
Let's say your business helps musicians build a bigger audience.You 
should include a few sentences about your experience as a musician 
in your pitch.This will show the investor that you deeply understand 
your customers' pain points. and that you have connections within 
the music industry, which will help with customer acquisition. 
 
Work on problems where your team has a competitive edge. Show 
investors why your unique background is ideal for your business. 
2.Your co-founder relationship
 
Building a company is hard.There are days and weeks when it feels 
like nothing is going right.There are nights and weekends when you 
don't see your family because you're grinding so hard. Having a co-
founder isn't essential... but it can help. 

                       
The thing is, co-founders often come with drama.When co-founders 
don't work well together, a lot of  stuff  goes wrong.They 
Þ
ght about 
the product roadmap.They disagree on which candidate to hire. 
They stop including each other in important meetings.And this 
drama leads to even bigger problems. 
Employees get tired of  the in-
Þ
ghting and leave for a company with 
a better culture.When employees leave, responsibilities go 
unful
Þ
lled. Customers notice and stop renewing. Investors see all of  
this and decline to participate in future fundraising rounds. 
The book 
The Founder Dilemma
 cites that 6 out of  10 startups fail 
because of  co-founder con
ß
ict.That Õs why it Õs so important for 
investors to feel con
Þ
dent in the co-founder relationship.They want 
to know that co-founders can make decisions together, 
communicate openly, share the burden of  work, and disagree 
without tearing the company apart. 
So when you're pitching the "team" portion of  your company to an 
investor, show that you and your co-founder are a good 
Þ
t. For 
example: 
!
you're hackathon buddies 
!
youÕve put on an event together 
!
you've shipped a product before 
!
you worked together closely at your last company 

                       
Something to prove to the investor that youÕve weathered storms 
before and you can take on future challenges that Õll eventually arise. 
Problem
 
Your pitch deck's problem slide is arguably the most important slide 
in your deck after the team. Even if  you've developed the most 
innovative, cutting-edge technology the world has ever seen, 
people won't buy it if  it's not solving a real problem.And if  no one is 
buying your product, investors wonÕt have any incentive to write you 
a check. 
Every unicorn business: 
1.
solves a real problem... 
2.
... that's important enough for people to pay to 
Þ
x 
3.
... and applies to a large audience 
If  your problem slide doesn't quickly demonstrate those three 
points, investors might not even look at the rest of  the deck. So this 
slide is super important.  
Now, it Õs possible that you are solving a huge problem but you stink 
at explaining what that problem is.This can cause investors to make 
some assumptions about the business and think things like: 
!
This isnÕt 
that 
big of  a problem 

                       
!
This is a huge problem, but people wonÕt pay for the solution 
(either because it Õs too expensive or too complicated) 
!
The founder hasnÕt done enough customer research to 
understand the problem 
Your problem slide should give ef
Þ
cient and compelling responses 
to these three questions: 
!
What is the problem? 
!
How do you know it's a problem? 
!
Who needs a solution to this problem? 
Here is an example of  an 
ineffective
 problem slide: 
1.
Airbnb hosts don't know how to market their homes to 
travelers 
2.
The averageAirbnb is vacant 15 days a month 
3.
There are no tools designed forAirbnb hosts to increase their 
bookings 
What's the problem with this example? Let's dissect it: 
 
This is a broad, general statement with no data to back it up. 
ÒAirbnb hosts don't know how to market their homes to travelers.Ó

                       
 
This doesn't capture the importance of  the problem. 
 
A quick Google search shows me there are tools out there. 
Inaccurate statements raise red 
ß
ags for investors. It makes us think 
that you either aren't honest or you haven't done your research. 
OK let Õs take the same points and tell a more effective story. HereÕs 
our new and improved problem slide: 
1.
We surveyed 300Airbnb hosts and found that 55% donÕt get 
any bookings for 3 months 
2.
The averageAirbnb host is leaving $2,000 a month on the 
table because of  vacancies 
3.
Existing tools don't offer incentives for hosts to continue using 
the platform, so they have extremely low retention rates 
Let's dissect why this problem slide is more convincing: 
 
This shows us that you've done loads of  customer research. 
Ò The averageAirbnb is vacant 15 days a month.Ó
Ò There are no tools designed forAirbnb hosts to increase their 
bookings.Ó
Ò We surveyed 300Airbnb hosts, and found that 55%  
donÕt get any bookings for 3 months.Ó

                       
 
This quanti
Þ
es the problem your customers are facing and makes 
the problem tangible, speci
Þ
c, and big. 
 
This demonstrates that you understand why other companies are 
failing and point to how your solution will be different. 
See the differences? Investors want to see that youÕve done your 
homework. Share how you arrived at your problem statement. 
Include data that youÕve gathered from your customer research. Get 
speci
Þ
c by using real numbers that matter.This will better convince 
investors that what youÕre working on is a massive problem.  
Solution
 
There are 3 important things to consider when putting together your 
ÒsolutionÓ slide: 
1.
Differentiation 
2.
Framing your story 
3.
Product vision 
Ò The averageAirbnb host is leaving $2,000 a month on the table 
because of  vacancies.Ó
ÒExisting tools don't offer incentives for hosts to continue using the 
platform which leads to extremely low retention rates.Ó

                       
1. Differentiation (aka: how to stand out)
 
Did you know investors see decks that are pitching the same 
business all the time?  
To stand out amongst the crowd, you must show investors what Õs 
different about your solution. Now, weÕre not talking about the nitty-
gritty details here. Speci
Þ
cs like ÒweÕre more affordable!Ó or Òwe 
have an app!Ó are not compelling.What is compelling to investors is 
having a unique approach.  
HereÕs an example: 
Let Õs say IÕm building a marketing automation platform. Investors 
might see 10 pitch decks about marketing automation platforms 
each week. So, how can I make sure my deck stands out? For 
starters, I can state the obvious: Marketing automation is crowded. 
But if  you dig into it, the most successful companies focus on a 
speci
Þ
c audience. 
!
Hubspot is marketing automation for content creators. 
!
Marketo is marketing automation for SaaS companies. 
!
Hootsuite is marketing automation for social media managers. 
 
My company, BookingPop, is marketing automation forAirbnb hosts. 
By focusing on the most differentiated component of  my business Ð 
the audience Ð I'm showing investors that I've discovered an 

                       
untapped opportunity in the marketing automation industry. Pretty 
cool, right? 
2. Framing your story (especially when 
investors hate your space)
 
Unfortunately, having a differentiated solution isn't enough when 
you're in an industry that investors won't touch. Let's say IÕm building 
a media company for teachers. My business will include a newsletter, 
Facebook group, and events. 
Here's the problem: investors donÕt like media companies.This is 
because media companies typically earn revenue through 
sponsorship or ad dollars, and those require a massive audience to 
bring in meaningful revenue. So instead of  pitching my business as a 
media company, IÕm going to pitch it as a data business. 
For example:There is not currently a database of  teachers in the 
United States. My company, CoolSchool, will collect dozens of  data 
points on this audience, which we can use to sell products, services, 
and memberships. 
In this example, IÕm not changing the core elements of  my business. 
But the newsletter, Facebook group, and events are a means by 
which IÕll collect the data.And I know that investors love data 
companies Ð because there is so much you do with data once you 

                       
have it ( just ask Meta) Ð so this frames my business in a way that is 
compelling to them. 
3. Product vision
 
If  youÕre a 
Þ
rst-time founder in the early stages, your product or 
service is likely terrible right now.That Õs honestly OK.VCs are not 
expecting perfection from anyone who has barely graduated from 
the idea stage.When you explain your solution, donÕt focus on what 
you have right now. Instead, sell them on your product vision. 
!
What will the next six months or year look like? 
!
What are the milestones youÕve set for yourself  along the way? 
Investors want to know how youÕre thinking about the future:Are 
you clear about what needs to be accomplished next? Do you have 
ambitious plans? How fast can you move? Reassure investors that 
you know exactly where youÕre going and the only thing missing is 
some capital to help you get there.  
Market
 
As we mentioned in our chapter ÒShould you raise from angel 
investors orVCs?Ó, both groups have different investing strategies. 
At Hustle Fund, we have a simple question that helps us with all our 

                       
decision-making: 
Do we believe that you are a founder with the right 
team and market to support a 100x outcome?
 
Eric also angel invests in companies outside of  Hustle Fund. He has 
invested in non-software companies, small businesses, and even 
local restaurants in his neighborhood. His mindset as an angel 
investor is very different.The question he and his wife ask 
themselves: 
Do we think this is a company that isnÕt going to lose our 
money?Will we get any multiple on this investment?
 
 
 
As an angel investor, if  Eric gets a 10x return on a company, that 
would be a huge success.A 3x return wouldnÕt be bad at all. But as a 
VC, a 3x or 10x return will be a failure because it wonÕt be enough to 
pull up the entire portfolio.Angel investors are happy with hitting 
bases.VCs are looking to hit grand slams. 
If  youÕre looking to raise money from a venture fund, make sure 
your market can be measured in billions of  dollars.
This showsVCs 
that there is room to grow and capture a slice of  the huge market. If  
your market is smaller than that, consider raising from angel 
investors. During those conversations, ask what success looks like to 
them to see if  your goals 
Þ
t with their vision. 
 
How do you actually nail down your market? Let Õs use Hubspot as an 
example.They did a great job targeting a niche audience before 
later scaling to other areas.They started out targeting small business 
owners speci
Þ
cally around things like SEO. But fast forward to today, 
their products are largely targeted at enterprises.They do email 

                       
marketing, lead generation, sales pipelines, etc.TheyÕve expanded 
their offerings along with their audience as they grew. 
For early startups, you donÕt have many resources. So it Õs really 
important to go after a speci
Þ
c niche.The more targeted and 
speci
Þ
c the niche, the better it Õll be.At the same time, you need to 
have some vision of  expansion because investors want to 
understand how this can become a big opportunity (like Hubspot). 
The best way to display this in a pitch deck is through three circles 
that describe your different markets. For Hubspot, it can look 
something like 
1.
Small market: SMB SEO tool 
2.
Medium market: SMB marketing automation 
3.
Large market: Enterprise marketing automation 
This shows investors the initial market youÕre in now and what your 
growth plan may look like in the future. 
Traction
 
If  youÕre really early, you may not have much traction yet, and that Õs 
OK. But selling before you launch demonstrates that your team has 
the capability to build an audience. Since customer acquisition can 
be a business' biggest roadblock, it's compelling to see some 
information about your 
go-to market (GTM) strategy
. 

                       
!
Do you have any early users or customers? Having some data 
on retention here can go a long way. 
!
Do you have a pilot program? If  youÕre a SaaS company, having 
signed contracts before you launch or a pilot group in progress 
shows you have some promising traction. 
!
What are your distribution channels? Do you have marketing 
experience in these areas?  
Investors want to see your thought process behind distribution and 
how youÕll execute your plan.  
Let Õs take our earlier example of  BookingPop (a marketing platform 
forAirbnb hosts) and show our GTM strategy. 
 
This is a decent start. Let Õs see how we can make it even better. 
 
Somewhat compelling GTM strategy:
 
!
Free assessment of Airbnb host Õs listing and comparison to 
similar listings 
!
Tactical webinars led byAirbnb-certi
Þ
ed marketers 
!
Money back guarantee if  hosts donÕt see booking requests 
increase in 3 months

                       
  
Why is the second example so much more compelling than the 
Þ
rst? 
Because it shows investors that not only are you thinking creatively 
about your go-to-market strategy, but youÕve already gained some 
traction. 
Even if  the numbers arenÕt great, demonstrating that you can move 
quickly and experiment with different tactics gives investors a reason 
to believe in your team.They want to see that youÕre making 
progress and if  youÕre capable of  building the tech, especially if  your 
product is complicated software.  
So if  youÕre super early stage, show investors something Ð an MVP, 
results from your small experiments, or even a Figma design Ð
!
will 
go a long way. 
Super compelling GTM strategy:
 
!
Free assessment of Airbnb host Õs listing + comparison to 
similar listings 
!
Results: 200 leads captured, 100 assessments 
completed, 17% conversion rate into paying customer
 
!
Tactical webinars 
!
Results: 1 published webinar, 100 registrants, 5% 
conversion rate into paying customer
 
!
Money-back guarantee 
!
Results: Of  the 22 paying customers, 1 requested refund
 

                       
Keep your pitch deck short 
 
For an early-stage company, the pitch deck has one purpose: to 
drive enough interest in your business to schedule a meeting.That Õs 
it. It should not (and will not) convince someone to invest in the 
company. 
You should be able to accomplish that goal in 5-10 slides, max. If  
your pitch deck is 12+ pages, you are likely providing too much 
information.Too much information can be risky because it gives 
investors more opportunities to 
Þ
nd red 
ß
ags.  
For example, if  your pitch deck includes a plan to hire 4 engineers in 
the next 12 months, but the investor thinks you only need 2, she 
might pass on the opportunity.That might sound silly at 
Þ
rst read 
but trust us: less is more.  
Here's the solution: omit unnecessary details so that investors can 
focus on the details that matter most. Now, if  youÕre thinking, ÒNo 
problem! IÕll just squish slides 11, 12, and 13 onto one slideÉ shrink 
down my text, and voila!Ó... please donÕt. 
Your most powerful elements will get lost in all the noise. Instead, 
cut anything that isnÕt absolutely necessary. For example: 
!
That slide about how many people youÕre going to hire 
"
 
Focus instead on the amazing team you already have (even if  
it Õs just you) 

                       
!
Those inspirational quotes by Benjamin Franklin 
"
 Cut 'em. 
YouÕre innovating.We get it. 
!
Screenshots of  the product 
"
These wonÕt be nearly as 
powerful as a live demo of  your product. 
!
Your revenue projections for the next 5 years 
"
Tell us instead 
what about your growth over the last few months. 
 
 
If  youÕre having trouble ruthlessly editing your own work, try 
presenting your deck to someone who knows nothing about 
your industry. Like a parent, grandparent, or sibling.  
As you explain your business to someone who doesnÕt 
understand your industry, youÕll quickly realize what is (and what 
is NOT) a powerful addition to the deck.

                       
How to actually design a 
captivating pitch deck 
 
We asked our friends at 
Deck Doctors
 to create an 
ebook
 to show 
what a good pitch deck looks like... and how to create one.The Deck 
Doctors are the strongest narrative and slide designers we've ever 
worked with.We work with them on our own decks, and we 
recommend our founders at Hustle Fund work with them, too. 
This book is relentlessly actionable.With real-life slide breakdowns 
from Hustle Fund portfolio companies. Instead of  copying and 
pasting a light version of  that book in this chapter, we recommend 
you read it in its entirety 
here
.  
It Õs free to download and it Õs the perfect complement to this book.  
 
Ò YouÕre halfway done!Ó 

                       
CHAPTER FOUR
 
Build relationships 
with investors
 
If  you donÕt come from the startup world, thereÕs a good chance that 
you arenÕt casual friends with any investors. So how do you meet 
angels andVCs?  
Every business book will tell you to just go out and Ònetwork.ÓTo 
meet important people, you should just Ògo out and network with 
people.Ó  
When I 
Þ
rst started my career, I thought I had to play golf  with 
businessmen. Or attend every startup conference out there. Or 
somehow get invited to a pre Burning Man party.  
Now having spent my entire career building communities of  
entrepreneurs, I 
Þ
nally understood what ÒnetworkingÓ really meant.  

                       
Make authentic relationships in 
business
 
Networking is not about going to a bunch of  conferences and 
exchanging business cards. Networking is simply about 
making 
friends
. 
Wait, that Õs the big revelation? OK stay with me. People do business 
with people they like and trust.And who do we like and trust? Our 
friends! If  you re
ß
ect on all the people whoÕve helped you and 
whom youÕve helped in business (or in life), what do they all have in 
common? If  I had to guess, theyÕre probably your actual friends.  
The opposite is also true.Think about a time when youÕve worked 
with a client or a team member who you didnÕt like or trust.They 
probably didnÕt pass your Òfriend test.Ó I bet doing business with 
them must have been extremely challenging.  
So when youÕre meeting new investors, potential candidates for your 
team, or people to partner with, donÕt think of  them as ÒcontactsÓ to 
pitch later on LinkedIn.Try to be actual friends with them.  
What most ÒbusinessÓ people do: 
!
They hard sell right off  the bat. 
!
They obsess about their own self-interests. 
!
They donÕt keep in touch with the people theyÕve met. 

                       
!
They spam their prospects with irrelevant marketing messages. 
!
They donÕt show any interest in the other personÕs hopes or 
dreams. 
It Õs not a surprise that no one is responding to cold emails from 
these people. Instead ask yourself: what would a good friend do?
 
A good friend would: 
!
Check in to see how theyÕre doing as a human. 
!
Spend quality time together, in and out of  the business world. 
!
Offer to make introductions to potential clients, hires, or 
partners. 
!
Share relevant news, books, or articles the other person would 
be interested in. 
!
Recommend the option that Õs best for them, even if  that means 
going against your personal interests. 
I especially love the last point. Good friends look out for what Õs best 
forYOU. For example, a true friend might recommend you accept a 
fundraising offer from a strategic partner over their own deal 
because it Õll be the better decision for you.  

                       
Where to meet investors 
 
Now that you understand why we should make friends over 
ÒLinkedIn connections,Ó how do you actually meet investors?  
Start with your current network
  
 
The best place to start is with your current network.Ask friends, 
family, and colleagues if  they know any investors. Since investors 
come from all backgrounds, they could look like friends in tech, your 
local electrician, or the small business owner across the street.You 
never know who an investor could be so you may be surprised by 
the reach that you already have. Elizabeth has pitched her 
optometrist three times to invest in Hustle Fund. He turned her 
down. But maybe the fourth timeÕs the charm.  
Use LinkedIn,Twitter, andAngelList
  
 
Previously founders had to 
ß
y to SiliconValley for a chance to meet 
withVCs. But with the power of  the internet, we can connect with 
almost everyone. On 
AngelList
, you can 
Þ
nd investors who have 
previously invested in startups similar to yours. OnTwitter, you can 
easily slide into investorsÕ DMs. On LinkedIn, you can ask 2nd-
degree connections for an introduction. Many investors even leave 
their email addresses in the ÒbiographyÓ section of  their social 
pro
Þ
les.  

                       
Attend relevant events and conferences
 
While meeting people online is great, nothing beats meeting 
people in real life. Find the gatherings where investors in your 
industry meet and make friends there. Sometimes these events 
might be in your local area. Or you may have to do some thorough 
research to see which gatherings are worth traveling to. Even though 
we have a pretty decent-sized audience online, our team at Hustle 
Fund loves hosting 
live events
 because we see the magic of  
connecting amazing people together IRL. 
Host your own 
Þ
esta
 
The GPs of  Hustle Fund got stuck raising money for our 
Þ
rst fund. 
They didnÕt know what to do but Elizabeth had an idea: throw a 
rager. 
IÕm kidding. It wasnÕt a rager. It was just a fun gathering for their 
existing investors.They asked them: ÒHey, weÕre pulling together a 
group of  our favorite investors at a cool taco shop in San Francisco. 
NextThursday at 7pm.You interested? ÓTacos and meeting other 
investors? Heck yes!  
After the guests con
Þ
rmed, the GPs did one more thing.They asked 
each person to bring someone who might enjoy the party plus have 
some interest in investing in Hustle Fund.This strategy to pitch to a 
group of  curated people worked well.And the tacos were delicious.  

                       
The Òhost your own 
Þ
estaÓ strategy works well once you have a small 
base of  people to invite.We recommend doing this once youÕve 
already built personal relationships with the invitees.  
Find warm intros or craft your 
cold email 
 
You might not have heard of  Kathryn Minshew but you probably 
know a job-search and career advice site that she started calledThe 
Muse. Kathryn and her team have raised over $30M. But before 
raising all that capital, Kathryn was rejected 
143 times
.And when I 
think about how many cold emails she sent just to get 143 meetings, 
my head starts to hurt. 
So this got me thinkingÉWhat can fundraising founders do to 
increase their chances of  getting a meeting? Here are 5 things the 
Hustle Fund GPs suggest to increase your odds of  landing a meeting 
with aVC: 
1. Keep your message short
 
Most investors are constantly on the go, checking email on their 
phone between meetings.This means they likely wonÕt have time to 
read a 5-paragraph essay that outlines your companyÕs mission, 
business model, value prop, fundraising goals, and traction. 

                       
Our recommendations: 
!
Include one line about your business 
!
Use a few bullet points to indicate the value proposition, 
current pilots, and/or traction 
!
End with a clear call to action, like ÒDo you have time for a 15-
minute call onWednesday to talk about fundraising?Ó 
Example of  a cold email from a founder to an investor:
 

Hey [NAME], 
InAmerica, you can't buy food for your pet hippo in a store. 
FastHippo is an on-demand food delivery for your pet hippo. 
!
In just the 
Þ
rst month, we have done $4k per month in sales 
!
Notable customers include Hilary Duff, Naomi Osaka, and 
David Chang  
!
We have been featured on the NYTimes andWSJ 
I'm raising a seed round - what is the best way to talk about this? 
Thanks, 
Elizabeth 

                       

1.
Highly fragmented Ð over 80% of  hippo education is 
distributed through mom-and-pop stores and only 20% is 
branded, elite hippo education 
2.
Structurally inef
Þ
cient Ð archaic supply chains require 
signi
Þ
cant working capital for inventory and long lead times 
to launch new classes / educational content for hippos 
3.
Un-segmented Ð Product offerings are split mainly into 
expensive, elite hippo education or cheap made-up content 
for hippos with nothing in between 
HippoCo has addressed these issues and created a direct-to-
consumer educational brand that offers affordable, useful 
educational content for the millennial hippo.We co-design and 
market new educational products in collaboration with top 
teachers at traditional hippo schools. 
The results are validating our model and popularity with hippos: 
!
Annualized revenue: $900K USD, growing +70% QoQ 
!
Margins: 50% Ð 60% 
!
Strong unit economics: CAC: $25, 25% repeat purchase rate 
in the past 6 months 
Founders are third generation hippo teachers and technologists 
from the BayArea. 
Best, 
Elizabeth

                       
2. Get a warm intro
 
Investors are 93% more likely to take a meeting with someone who 
has been recommended to them. If  you donÕt have a second-degree 
connection to an investor, one tactic is to reach out to one of  the 
investor Õs portfolio company CEOs. 
Start by introducing yourself  and asking for their advice on 
something startup-related.Then once youÕve developed a 
relationship with her, ask the CEO for an intro to their investors. 
When an investor gets an introduction to an emerging startup from 
one of  their star CEOs, theyÕre more likely to take you seriously. If  
they say yes, write an 
email that makes it super easy to forward
 to 
that investor. 
 
Example of  an email that the CEO can forward to their investor:
  

HiJake, 
Thank you in advance for sending this to Martha at BigCrazyVC. 
WeÕre raising our seed round and IÕd like to get her thoughts on 
HippoCo. HereÕs a quick background: 
The $180B hippo education market is antiquated and ripe for 
disruption: 

                       
3. Do your research
 
VCs often tailor their investments around a certain type of  business. 
Their focus could be an industry (VR vs. marketplaces), founder 
pro
Þ
le (female founders vs. founders in a speci
Þ
c region), or size 
(pre-seed vs. SeriesA). ManyVCs wonÕt take the time to respond to 
emails from startups that arenÕt in their sweet spot, let alone take a 
meeting with them. 
As one investor told us, 
ÒIÕm far more likely to book a meeting from a 
cold email that seems like it could be a good 
Þ
t for my 
Þ
rmÕs mandate 
than I am to book a meeting from a warm intro to a company that 
isnÕt a 
Þ
t.Ó 
4.Ask for intros, strategically
 
Most founders ask the same generic question at the end of  their 
meetings. 
ÒHereÕs our blurb, can you share it with anyone who may 
be interested?Ó 
The founders or investors say, 
ÒSure, of  courseÓ
 to be 
nice. But we all know they never actually share your info with 
anyone. 
Now this isnÕt a bad question to ask, per se.The intent is actually 
great. But this question feels too general. HereÕs our advice: Change 
the way you ask. 
ÒCan you think of  one person who might be 
interested in hearing about my company?"
 

                       
This new question is wildly more effective. Most people can think of  
one name with ease.The hurdle is far lower and the ask is 
achievable. Oftentimes, that person is the richest person they know. 
5. Reduce your red 
ß
ags
 
AsVCs, it Õs our job to ask the hard questions.To determine (quickly 
and fairly) whether a company is promising enough to warrant 45-60 
minutes of  our time.We review enough applications to quickly spot 
red 
ß
ags in an applicationÐthings that prevent us from moving 
forward with a company. 
Here are a few common 
ß
ags that often prevent us from taking a 
meeting: 
!
If  the founder isnÕt working on the business full-time 
!
If  the revenue model is based entirely on ads 
!
If  the team seems distracted with many different opportunities, 
rather than focused on the core business 
!
If  weÕve already invested in a similar company 
!
If  the company requires a huge amount of  capital to be raised 
before you can take the MVP to market 
!
If  the valuation is super high 
Keep in mind that these "
ß
ags" are speci
Þ
c to Hustle Fund. Be sure 
to do your research (see tip #3) to 
Þ
nd out what otherVCs consider 
to be deal breakers.
 

                       
Create your elevator pitch
 
OK it Õs unlikely youÕll actually pitch your company in an elevator. But 
you will likely bump into an investor at a cafe where theyÕll eventually 
ask, 
ÒSo, what do you do?Ó
 
Can you con
Þ
dently and effectively communicate what your startup 
does in 30 seconds? HereÕs the structure we recommend.  
Basic elements of  an elevator pitch
 
1.
Keep it short.Aim for 30-60 seconds. 
2.
Be straight to the point. Highlight 2-3 impressive things about 
your company, nothing more. 
3.
End with a speci
Þ
c call to action.Ask Ò Would you like to learn 
more?Ó to investors if  youÕre looking to fundraise. Or ask ÒDo 
you have any feedback?Ó to founders if  youÕre looking to 
improve your pitch. 
Now let Õs see this in action. Imagine we created a company called 
TheWell CraftedAdventure.  
ÒLet's say you're traveling in the next 12 months and you have a few 
places picked out for business, family, and friends.You can tell the 
app more about the type of  adventuring you like to do, your 
Þ
tness 
level, where you plan to travel, etc.And this app will spit out 
recommended adventures in each location. It will connect you with a 
local expert and it'll provide a list of  places where you can rent gear 

                       
or anything else that would make your adventure easy while you're 
on the road.Ó 
HereÕs how we would turn this generic company description into a 
compelling elevator pitch.  
ÒI founded a company calledTheWell CraftedAdventure. Our app 
allows us to understand how people prefer to travel.Then we use our 
AI to spit out recommendations of  things you can do, where to 
Þ
nd 
the proper gear, and more info on how to maximize your time to 
enjoy the trip. 
WeÕve attracted 750k users in the second year alone, growing at a 
35% month over month rate.WeÕve been namedApp of  theYear 
from both National Geographic and Outside Magazine. Founders 
have previously been the GM of  Expedia andTech Lead at 
JetBlue.com.We're currently closing up our round. If  you'd like to 
learn more, let's continue the conversation.Ó 
The pitch is concise, it highlights a few impressive items (usingAI, 
growth rate, and notable partnerships), and ends with a call to 
action. 

                       
DonÕt try to close money off  an elevator pitch
 
The goal of  an elevator pitch is to leave the investor curious to learn 
more about your startup. It Õs inappropriate to ask, 
ÒAre you ready to 
put $100k into this idea?Ó
 right after a pitch. 
ThereÕs not enough context or trust in the relationship yet. 
Remember: an elevator pitch is only the tip of  the iceberg. Schedule 
a proper meeting with the investor and be prepared for the next 
steps. 
 

                       
CHAPTER FIVE 
Pitch to investors
 
Pitching to investors can feel intimidating, but it doesnÕt have to be 
such a scary thing. Hustle Fund GPs Eric, Elizabeth, and Shiyan have 
seen over 50,000 pitches from startup founders throughout their 
careers. So they know what makes a pitch great.  
WeÕll walk you through how the whole process works and share 
some advice you might not expect.  
How to run your 
Þ
rst meeting 
with aVC 
 
Meet on Zoom
 
It might seem weird to pitch over Zoom. But this is how Hustle Fund 
conducts all our pitch meetings.We love this medium because it 
allows both parties to see one another in their natural elements.  

                       
When founders meet with Eric on Zoom, they see him in his garage 
with his kidsÕ bikes, BBQ, and trash cans in the background. Eric 
shows his real background because it shows what his life actually 
looks like.Vulnerability is often reciprocated and that Õs where you 
can both start to form a more personal connection. 
 
DonÕt use a pitch deck
 
Yes, you read that correctly. It Õs totally ok to not use a slide deck 
during your 
Þ
rst meeting. I know you spent weeks crafting your pitch 
deck, but hear us out.  
When you use a slide deck, you automatically enter Òpresenter 
modeÓ, which gives the meeting a clear power dynamic. Both parties 
become uncomfortably aware that one of  you is the decision maker 
(hint: it Õs not you). 
When you have a relaxed conversation with someone, the power 
dynamic feels more balanced.And when the dynamic is balanced, 
you can connect more deeply as humans. By the way, you can still 
pitch yourself  and your company without using a pitch deck.  
Zoom tip: 
Set your camera to be at eye level to 
make the meeting feel more conversational.

                       
After the initial small talk, ask the investor to tell you a bit about 
themselves: 
!
How they got into venture 
!
What their role at their 
Þ
rm is 
!
A deal the fund recently completed 
After they share their story, you can tailor your pitch to theVCÕs 
context. 
Great storytelling is great listening
 
Having a normal conversation rather than a formal presentation 
gives you an opportunity to listen to what excites the investor. If  they 
mentioned 
!
How they believe in startups who think slowly and long term, 
you can tailor your pitch to show how you're thinking long-term 
for your startup  
!
How they started their women-focusedVC fund to even the 
playing 
Þ
eld, you can emphasize the women and diversity on 
your team  
!
How they invested in a similar company, you can weave how 
that company has inspired your journey (if  this is true) and how 
you have a similar vision as them 
These are good ways to connect with the investor and 
Þ
nd some 
common ground.As you share more about your similarities, notice 

                       
their reactions on Zoom. If  the other person is looking away or 
fading off, change the subject to what they care about. If  they're 
nodding and smiling, those are cues to lean more into your story. 
Questions that early-stageVCs 
may ask you
 
Elizabeth has a list of  questions that she regularly asks early-stage 
founders to decide whether or not to invest.The 
questions in bold 
are what she personally cares most about.The other questions are 
common examples of  what many early-stage software investors may 
ask.
 
Team 
 
!
Tell me a bit about your background and your co-founder(s)Õs 
background. 
!
How do you all know each other? 
!
How long have you worked together and in what 
capacity? 
!
Why is your team uniquely motivated to solve this problem?  
!
Why did you pick your co-founder?  
!
Who do you need to hire during the next 18 months to be 
successful? 
!
When was the last time you disagreed on a business issue? 
How did you resolve it? 

                       
!
Do the founders have the knowledge to build the technology 
or would they need outside help? 
!
What does the cap table look like? (equity distribution across 
founders)  
ProblemYouÕre Solving
 
!
What is the speci
Þ
c problem you are solving?  
!
How big / serious of  a problem is it? 
!
Why is this a problem?  
!
Who has this problem? 
Solution / Product
 
!
How are people solving this problem today?  
!
Describe your solution to this problem. 
!
What effort/timing is required to switch from a different 
solution to yours? 
!
(For deep tech)What is unique about the tech? (Do you have 
any patents / IP / trademarks?) 
!
What is your product roadmap for the next 6-12 months? 
Market / Market timing
 
!
Why now?  
!
Why hasnÕt this worked/been done before?  

                       
!
How big is this speci
Þ
c market?  
!
How many people does it affect? 
!
How much money are people spending to solve this? 
!
What is your unfair advantage? 
!
Who would you see as your key competitor at the moment? 
Why? 
CustomerAcquisition / Unit Economics / Go-
To-Market
 
!
Who is your customer persona?  
!
Who is the end user? 
!
Who is the buyer? 
!
What does a day-in-a-life look like for these people? 
!
How much are people paying today? (range?)  
!
How much do you think you can charge in the future?  
!
How are you currently getting users/customers? (what 
customer acquisition channel(s)?) 
!
How do you think you will get users/customers in the future?  
!
How much does it cost you currently to get a user?And in 
which channel?  
!
How have different customer acquisition channels performed? 
For example, what is the difference in conversion rate between 
Facebook ads versus LinkedIn ads? 
!
Tip: understanding how to slice and dice your numbers 
over time and through different channels helps you 
understand two things:Are your numbers getting better 

                       
over time?And which channels are working or not 
working? 
!
How much does your solution/product cost (COGs)?  
!
How much will it cost in the future?  
!
Why do people buy/use your solution?  
!
What is the sales cycle to-date? 
!
How does the product team interact with current and 
potential customers? If  so, how and how often?  
Competition
 
!
What differentiates your solution from other alternatives? 
!
Who are you more afraid of: Google or another startup? 
!
Who are you most afraid of ?  
!
What happens if  Google (or equivalent) does this? 
!
Who are the major players?  
!
What is your moat? 
Traction
 
!
When did you start the company? 
!
How many customers do you have to-date?  
!
Or how many pilots / contracts are signed? 
#
When are the start dates of  those pilots / contracts?  
#
What are the contingencies?  
!
Or how many LOIs signed?What do those look like?  
!
How much revenue have you generated to date?  

                       
!
How much revenue did you earn this month? Last month? 
The month before? 
!
As product revenue vs consulting / services revenue?  
!
What are your margins?  
#
Tip: margins are especially relevant for companies 
with a high cost of  goods, like expensive items, or e-
commerce companies with delivery expenses. 
!
Any notable customers?  
!
Any enterprise customers paying big money?  
!
What does retention or churn look like? (if  you know) 
!
How many daily active users do you have? How many 
monthly? 
!
What is your monthly churn? 
#
Tip: churn is especially important for subscription-
based companies 
!
What does engagement look like?  
!
What is your website conversion rate? 
!
How have your conversion rates changed over time? Have 
they increased, decreased, or stayed the same? 
!
Any upsells?  
!
When will your company break even in terms of  pro
Þ
tability 
and cash 
ß
ow? 
Fundraising/plans
 
!
How much have you raised to date?  
!
What were the terms in your last round? 

                       
!
Who are your current investors? 
!
How much are you looking to raise?  
!
What are you looking to achieve (milestones) with this 
round if  everything goes well? 
!
What milestones do you expect to hit with this raise? 
!
Where are you in your round?  
!
Have the current terms been set?And if  so, what are 
they?  
!
What is your burn rate?  
!
What is your top priority for the next 3-6 months?  
!
What metrics do you care about when measuring the health of  
your business?Why? 
!
What are your capital costs? (if  capital intensive, like hardware / 
e-commerce) 
!
Minimum batch sizes / inventory / etc?  
!
Have you secured a lead investor for the round? If  so, who and 
how much is the lead investing? 
We recognize that these are tough questions.And sometimes tough 
questions put people on the defensive.A red 
ß
ag for most investors 
is when founders get SUPER defensive, or even dismissive of  the 
questions or ideas that investors bring to the table.This is because a 
defensive founder indicates that they are probably not coachable. 
Now you should feel free to push back against an investor if  you 
have a different opinion. Especially if  you have data to back up that 

                       
opinion. But there's a difference between being a jerk and holding 
your ground. 
Our team at Hustle Fund looks for founders with growth mindsets. 
People who are open to receiving new information and hearing new 
perspectives, then changing their worldview based on that new 
information. It's a big red 
ß
ag when it appears the founder lacks that 
mindset.  
 
One more thing: your numbers or answers might not be impressive, 
especially if  youÕre an early-stage company.That Õs OK.The important 
thing is to know your metrics. 
True story: once someone from our team was on a Zoom meeting 
with a founder looking for investment. During the call, one thing 
became painfully clear: this founder didnÕt have a basic 
understanding of  his metrics. 
He didn't know how much traf
Þ
c he got each month, or at what rate 
his customers converted. He didn't know how many of  his purchases 
If  you 
Þ
nd that investors are grilling you on your 
business, that Õs actually a good sign.This means 
the investor is interested in the business and 
wants to dig in more. 

                       
were from returning customers, or what it cost to convert a visitor 
into a paying customer. 
Spoiler alert: we didn't invest in this founder. 
But the reason we didn't invest had nothing to do with what his 
actual numbers were. It came down to the fact that this founder 
didn't understand what was happening in his business. If  the 
founder had a 
Þ
rm grip on his metrics Ð even if  the numbers were 
low Ð it would have shown us two important things: 
1.
He has thought critically about his funnel 
2.
He knows what's happening in the business and can iterate 
quickly. 
I'll say it again: 
the actual numbers meant far less to us than the 
founder's understanding of  those numbers
. Because without that 
knowledge, how can the founder know where to focus his time and 
resources? How will he know what's driving the business, and what 
changes should be made to improve it? 
Prepare as much as you can to answer these questions. Respond 
gracefully and honestly.YouÕll be on the right path. 
 

                       
Questions that founders should 
askVCs
 
Fundraising meetings are a two-way street. Entrepreneurs need to 
do a good job answering an investor Õs questions, but they should 
also ask questions toVCs. Skipping this is a serious mistake.  
Entrepreneurs should learn everything they can about an investor 
before entering into an agreement.You donÕt want to take money 
from bad apples. If  things get tough down the road, investors can: 
!
Call their convertible note 
!
Potentially replace you (depending on the equity and board 
situation) 
!
Threaten litigation (even if  they have no case) 
!
And most importantly, be a big pain in the ass and call you all 
the time 
You are looking for a relationship Ð not just money. 
Before taking an investor meeting (or even reaching out), do your 
homework and research investors. Make sure to reach out to 
investors who are actually a good 
Þ
t for your business (stage, sector, 
amount, what they look for, etc). Most websites will spell this all out Ð 
especially newer micro funds who are trying to differentiate 
themselves in the market by  going after a speci
Þ
c niche. 

                       
In addition, hereÕs a list of  questions you should ask investors when 
you meet them: 
!
How big is your fund? (forVCs) 
!
Where are you in your fund? (forVCs) 
!
When will you need to fundraise again? (forVCs) 
!
Do you lead rounds? (forVCs) 
!
What is your typical check size? 
!
Do you reserve capital for follow-on? 
This gives you a sense of  how much money you can raise from a 
given 
Þ
rm or individual.This is key because there are a lot of  
investors out there who have no money but are still taking meetings.  
It Õs OK to take a meeting with an investor who has no money to 
invest, but you should know that they wonÕt be able to come into 
your round until they have raised money so your meeting might not 
lead to anything. 
Understanding how much is allocated for follow-on investments also 
gives you a sense of  how much money is left in a fund. If  a fund is 
$10M and two-thirds is reserved for follow-on, then in practice, 
thereÕs $3M for 
Þ
rst checks. If  the 
Þ
rm has already deployed $2M, 
you know that your chances of  getting a 
Þ
rst check are slim. 
In general, it Õs slightly easier to raise from funds that have just raised 
a fund.They have a lot of  money that needs to be deployed, and so 
they are more eager to invest. In contrast, when there are fewer 

                       
dollars left to deploy, those last dollars will be extremely 
competitive. 
You should 
Þ
nd out an investor Õs cadence: 
!
How many seed deals have you done in the last 6 months? 
!
How many seed deals do you anticipate doing in the next 6 
months? 
!
How long does your process typically take? 
And how decisions are made: 
!
What is involved in your process? 
!
Who is the decision maker? (forVCs, although sometimes 
angels need to consult their families or friends) 
By the end of  the meeting, you should understand: 
!
Everything about an investor Õs decision-making process 
!
Whether you have a champion to take this to the decision 
makers (whether it be partners at a 
Þ
rm or their family) 
!
What the concerns are with your business in their eyes 
!
What the CONCRETE next steps are 
If  you do not have answers toALL of  these questions, do not be 
afraid to keep asking questions.
 

                       
Follow up immediately after the 
call 
After Eric pitches a prospective investor, he sends a follow-up note 
as quickly as possible. Sometimes within minutes of  hanging up.You 
donÕt have to be 
that 
fast.  
But it Õs good to set expectations before you hang up, saying 
something like ÒIÕll follow up in the afternoonÓ or ÒIÕll get back to you 
within 24 hours.ÓAnd then 
actually
 follow up within the timeline 
youÕve set.  
This signals that youÕre a person who does what they say.This may 
seem like a small thing but investors notice these details.  
Craft the perfect follow-up email
 
Let Õs talk about the anatomy of  a great follow-up email, then weÕll 
show you an example template that you can use in your follow-up 
emails. 
First, we recommend reiterating details that made the other person 
excited during the call. HereÕs an example.  

                       
Imagine you just pitched your 
Þ
ntech company to an investor, who 
mentioned that sheÕs interested in LatinAmerican 
Þ
ntech 
infrastructure.You can reference that note and frame your company 
(or yourself ) as a thought leader in this space in your follow-up 
email. 
Next, include anything you promised to share after the meeting.This 
could include your pitch deck, a link to an article you mentioned, 
info about your market, data from your pilot program, etc. Make sure 
the other person has everything they need to properly evaluate your 
startup.  
Lastly, set expectations on what Õs next.This could be something like 
ÒIÕll follow up in a week after youÕve had a chance to process the info 
and organize your thoughts.Ó 
Most email clients allow you to 
ÒsnoozeÓ the email, so the message will automatically pop back into 
your inbox a week later (if  you havenÕt received a response by then). 

                       
Example of  a good follow-up email:
 
 
 
Hey {NAME}, 
Thanks so much for spending some time with me this morning! 
Really glad we can share intros and get to know one another. I 
love how excited you were about {Reference back to something 
that made the investor excited during the call} 
Some additional context about {Your company}: 
!
{Mention notable progress} 
!
{Include link to pitch deck and other materials} 
!
{Link to notable press coverage} 
Thanks for your time and hope we get a chance to collaborate! 
Best, 
Eric  

                       
Create your investor CRM 
 
HereÕs our controversial take:A great fundraising process is only 
20% about pitching.The other 80% is all about organization. 
While fundraising for his startups and for his fund, Eric spoke to 
thousands of  investors. It was impossible to remember all of  them, 
let alone details of  when they last spoke, what they talked about, etc.  
The secret to EricÕs success in fundraising is having a strong CRM 
system to organize everything. For those who have lives outside of  
making spreadsheets, 
CRM stands for customer relationship 
management.
 Companies like Salesforce, HubSpot, and Pipedrive 
have built exquisite CRM systems. But a CRM can be as simple as a 
Google Sheet.  
A CRM is a tool that keeps all your contacts in one place with 
detailed notes about each relationship. Using a CRM allows Eric (and 
his team) to tailor communications, build stronger relationships, and 
ultimately close more deals. 
Let Õs walk through a 
template weÕve made
 (yes, you can duplicate it) 
to show what makes an effective CRM and how to get started today. 

                       
 
This spreadsheet may look like a lot at 
Þ
rst. But a CRM is simpler 
than you might think.Also, since the text on this image is hard to 
see, let Õs break down each section. 
 

                       
Basic contact info
 
To kick things off, add the names and email addresses of  the 
investors that you already know.Then add the names and email 
addresses of  prospective investors youÕd like to build stronger 
relationships with.  
 
Type of  Investor
 
In the next column, label what type of  investor they are (angel 
investor, venture fund, etc).This will help you tailor your messaging 
accordingly.
 

                       
 
Referrer
 
The referrer is the person who introduced you to the investor listed 
in your CRM. So if James Hippoton sent an email to introduce me to 
investor EricTorres,James is the referrer. 
This is crucial because your team can see where your leads are 
coming from. Plus, if  the introduction is bene
Þ
cial, it Õs respectful to 
reach out to the referrer later on to say thanks.  
Add their names in the next column and let Õs keep moving. 

                       
 
Stage
 
What stage are they at in terms of  considering an investment in your 
company?These stages can be customized to your situation. For 
simplicity, weÕll show you the stages that we use during our 
fundraising process. 
!
Lead
 ÐWhen someone offers to refer somebody new to you 
but you havenÕt made contact yet. 
!
First Contact
 ÐThis is the 
Þ
rst time youÕve of
Þ
cially engaged. 
Someone might have sent an email introduction and the lead 
may have reciprocated back saying, Ò Yes, let Õs meet!Ó 

                       
!
First Pitch
 ÐThis is the 
Þ
rst meeting you have with them to pitch 
your company. Usually done over Zoom without a pitch deck. 
!
Due Diligence
 ÐThis comes after the pitch when theyÕre 
considering investing. It Õs normal for investors to ask to see 
more materials to help them make a decision. 
!
Soft Commit
 ÐThis is when they are interested in investing and 
have given you a dollar amount they want to put towards your 
company.This is purely a verbal commitment, nothing of
Þ
cial, 
but a positive sign to move them into the next stage. 
!
Signed
 ÐThis is when the confetti drops from the ceiling 
because you have received a full commitment from this 
investor.Whooot!  
!
Rejected and Ghosted 
Ð If  someone rejects your pitch, mark 
them as ÒrejectedÓ and invite them to be part of  your investor 
newsletter (more on that in the next chapter) to convert them 
later down the road. If  someone isnÕt returning your messages, 
you should ping them at least 10 times before marking them as 
Òghosted.Ó  

                       
 
Committed 
 
If  the investor has given you a verbal commitment with the amount 
they want to invest, include this number in the ÒCommittedÓ column. 
Above, you can see three investors committing a combined total of  
$300,000 as an example. 
 

                       
Notes
 
The ÒNotesÓ section summarizes what you talked about during your 
calls or emails.Add as many notes as you can along with the dates 
of  each interaction.These notes are crucial because fundraising is a 
team sport.  
Tracking everything helps your team understand all the context of  
the relationship. So when they interact with this person, they know 
where each investor is in the process, and can pick up right where 
their teammate left off.  
 

                       
Closed and Next Contact
 
The ÒClosedÓ column shows how much money youÕve actually 
closed.This is the time to celebrate! Put on some upbeat music. 
Have a dance party.You deserve it.  
Ok, time to get back to work.The last part of  the CRM is a ÒNext 
Contact Ó column.This is a reminder for yourself  when you should 
reach out to this person again. So if  you're still in the due diligence 
or soft commit phases, set a clear date here on when you should 
follow up.  
If  people have committed, we recommend being aggressive and 
following up every two or three days.This shows that youÕre 
committed to making this work and are certain you have given them 
all the materials they need to make a decision.  
For the people who have rejected or ghosted you, you should keep 
reaching out. One time Eric reached out to an investor 12 times with 
no response.Then, on the 13th attempt, that investor replied. He 
ended up committing half  a million dollars into Hustle Fund.  
So a rejection is never truly a rejection until you get a hard Òno.Ó  

                       
What Õs the key takeaway?
 
Your investor CRM is a critical tool for successful fundraising.  
!
All your contacts are in one place with detailed information  
!
All interactions your team has had with each person are tracked 
so everyone is on the same page 
!
It tracks where everyone is in the fundraising process and gives 
reminders on when to follow up.  
Start your investor CRM as soon as possible. Like, now.There are 
paid CRM tools out there to track opens and clicks on emails. But to 
keep things simple, start with a basic spreadsheet.We created a 
free 
template
 that you can use as inspiration.  
Create an investor newsletter
 
Whether they committed capital or turned down the opportunity to 
invest, invite all the investors you connect with to join your investor 
newsletter.  
This is a monthly update on what Õs happening in your startup.This 
newsletter has two bene
Þ
ts: 
1.
It keeps your existing investors engaged
 Ð and helps you make 
important asks when you need support. 

                       
2.
It Õs a crazy effective fundraising tool 
Ð the people who said 
ÒnoÓ to you are looped into your progress and may convert into 
investors down the line. 
HereÕs what Õs inside an effective investor newsletter (you can 
duplicate our template 
here
). 
 
The introduction
 
Eric likes to add a bit of  humanity at the top of  his newsletters.This 
usually means sharing an update on what's going on with the team 
or his own life. It's a nice way to show everyone you're a team of  
good human beings. 
 

                       
 
Executive summary
 
Next, Eric recommends including an executive summary.This should 
consist of  the most important items, like:  
!
Major news (positive and negative) 
!
Top line review numbers  
!
Growth metrics  
!
Key hires  
Not every investor will read the entire newsletter.This executive 
summary gives them theTL;DR (too long; didnÕt read) of  what Õs most 
important.  

                       
 
Company description and key asks
 
Yes, founders should ÒrepitchÓ their company again. Believe it or not, 
investors sometimes forget what they invested in since theyÕve 
invested in so many companies. Or prospective investors on your list 
need a quick refresher on what you do.  
A short summary to remind folks of  your mission and what you do is 
bene
Þ
cial for everyone.  
Next, include your key asks.These are areas where you could use 
help like hiring, coaching, or fundraising advice. Investors want to 
help you but donÕt always know how.This section makes it easy for 
them to reply, 
ÒI know somebody at Stripe! Let me connect you to 
them now,Ó
 or 
ÒI have a recommendation for an executive coach. 
HereÕs their website.Ó
 

                       
 
Goals and highlights
 
Investors like to see founders set clear milestones and re
ß
ect on past 
goals.The highlights section helps investors better understand what 
the founders are going through.  
Like in the section about revenue (in the photo), it Õs totally ok to say,  
Ò We set this goal.We didnÕt really make it. But this is what our 
projections look like now and the lessons that weÕve learned.Ó  
 

                       
Final stats
 
It can be helpful to reiterate some important metrics again toward 
the end of  the newsletter. Founders don't need to include a 
Þ
nal 
stats section every time. But if  thereÕs a massive milestone you want 
to emphasize, include that here. 
 
Thank yous
 
It Õs possible to train people to read a speci
Þ
c section of  your 
newsletter by giving them a chance to see their own name listed. In 
our Hustle Fund investor newsletter, we give a dozen shout-outs to 

                       
people who have helped us in the previous month. People often 
read to the end to see if  theyÕre listed.  
This is also a subtle name-dropping element. Including the people 
who have helped you gives everyone a sense of  the community 
youÕre surrounding yourself  with.This can also potentially FOMO 
people into helping you, as well.  
Bonus tip:Add your Calendly link
 
Consider adding a link where prospective investors can schedule a 
call with you. Remember, this investor newsletter is essentially a drip 
campaign for your fundraising.These monthly newsletters show 
prospective investors all the work youÕre doing along with a 
progress report of  how it Õs going. So when it Õs time to raise money 
again, you have the opportunity to include a 
Calendly link
 and say 
something like, 
Ò Things are going great.We're thinking about doing a little round 
with our insiders 
Þ
rst before we raise something bigger. Here's my 
Calendly link if  you want to schedule time.Ó 
If  you've done your work well, you're going to see a lot of  people 
schedule a meeting with you.  

                       
Be consistent
 
Consistency is paramount.Whether it's once a month or once a 
quarter Ð we recommend once a month Ð you want the folks on your 
investor newsletter to get used to hearing from you at a regular 
cadence. It Õs a great way to build trust with your investors.TheyÕll see 
you as reliable and trustworthy, and will be more likely to 
recommend you to other investors and strategic partners in the 
future.  
Newsletters can also be a way to slowly pitch your company over 
time.And it works.At Hustle Fund, investors who have passed on us 
have invested in later rounds because of  our newsletters. If  someone 
rejects you on an investment, invite them into the newsletter anyway. 
You might 
Þ
nd that over time, youÕll be able to land them as an 
investor.
 
Keep it simple
 
It Õs OK to send the same updates to all your investors. No one needs 
an individualized note to go with their update.Just be sure to BCC 
everyone so youÕre not sharing their information without their 
approval. 
Lastly, include relevant links. Did you just launch a new product? Post 
a new job listing? Release a new version of  your website? Linking to 
those pages will make it easy for your investors to get excited about 
what youÕre building, and think of  ways they can help you be more 
successful.
 

                       
How to ask for feedback if  the 
investor says no
 
One thing that frustrates our team about venture capital is 
vague 
passes
. Most investors arenÕt incentivized to give a clear reason to 
say ÒnoÓ.TheyÕd rather preserve the optionality of  coming back to 
you later if  it seems that your business is actually doing well. 
Frankly, this feels disrespectful. But it Õs bound to happen. Here are 
two ways to try and get some real perspective on what may be 
happening. 
1. ÐAsk the investor directly
 
ÒIs there one thing that caused you concern about our company?Ó  
If  you ask for generic feedback, there may be too much Òanalysis 
paralysis,Ó and it Õs going to be hard to get an answer. But when you 
ask for just one reason or one thing that you could improve, this 
makes it easier for the person to respond.  
Keep in mind if  you use that Òone thingÓ to try and convince them 
that they were wrong, youÕll likely just jeopardize the relationship. If  
you do get feedback using this method, we recommend thanking 
them for their honesty, letting them know youÕre addressing that 
piece, and asking if  you can add them to your investor update 
newsletter.
 

                       
2. Ð ÒPitchÓ to other founders
 
If  you've been talking with investors and the conversations havenÕt 
gone anywhere, pitch your startup to other founders. Make sure 
these are founders you can absolutely trust. Give them permission to 
drop honest and brutal feedback.  
Ask targeted and action-oriented questions like, 
Ò What is one thing 
you think that I should change about my pitch?Ó
You can even gather 
a few founders into a small mastermind group to do this activity 
together. Each person pitches and the other people in the group 
give feedback for 10-15 minutes.This allows you all to gather input 
from multiple perspectives and learn from each other. 
What to do if  you arenÕt hearing 
back from investors
 
If  someone ghosts you after a Bumble date, they probably arenÕt that 
interested in you. But investors are a different story.  
1. Be persistent in following up
 
Elizabeth used to think that investors would get annoyed if  she 
bugged them too much. But now that sheÕs on the other side of  the 
table, she doesnÕt even notice if  someone has pinged her three 
times because sheÕs overwhelmed with emails.  

                       
If  you get no response, follow up within the week Ð ideally 3-4 days 
later. If  you still havenÕt received a response, follow up again 3-4 
days later.  
If  you are writing toAmerican investors, direct asks are best, 
because recipients are busy and donÕt want to spend time 
interpreting what you really want.Are you asking for a meeting 
about your seed round? Or are you asking for something else? 
This should go without saying butÉ donÕt be an asshole. Emails like, 
ÒListen stupid, you havenÕt responded yet Ó donÕt work. DonÕt even 
address the fact that the recipient hasnÕt responded yet because it 
sounds desperate.Just pretend that they never received the email in 
the 
Þ
rst place. Sometimes that does happen. 
Include a line that says that youÕll stop pinging them if  theyÕre too 
busy or if  it Õs not the right time to partner.YouÕre simply looking for a 
con
Þ
rmation Ð yes or no. Having persistence is more appreciated 
than people might assume here.Just keep at it.  
2. Be nice to an investor Õs assistant and ask for 
help
 
It goes without saying that you should treat an investor Õs assistant 
with respect. But take it one step further and be actively friendly.An 
investor Õs assistant is actually the most powerful person at the 
Þ
rm. 

                       
They control the investor Õs calendar, and while the investor may not 
100% follow that calendar, the assistant may be able to nudge the 
investor or slot you in for another meeting if  youÕre still having 
trouble. 
3. Create urgency
 
If  youÕre trying to get in touch because you are raising money, it 
helps to create urgency.An investor will make you their top priority if  
your deal is going to close tomorrow.  
Now, the question here is credibility Ð you canÕt say your deal is 
going to close in a week unless it really is. One big mistake that 
entrepreneurs make is to say, 
ÒOh my round is closing next week and 
we have a ton of  interest.Ó
And next week comes and goes and no 
one has committed to the round!All of  a sudden the entrepreneur 
looks either like a liar. 
The urgency you create must be real and something you know 100% 
you can deliver on. Here are some things that can say to create 
urgency: 
!
You have a Demo Day coming up onX date, and your price will 
likely go up afterward.  
!
You are in second-meetings with a number of  investors (this 
must be true!) and you expect the round to close soon. 

                       
!
You only have $X left in the open round and about $Y amount 
of  high-level interest from the investors youÕre talking to, so you 
need to know soon. 
!
You are only raising $X (a small amount) on a convertible note 
at $Y cap, and after you hit that, the price will likely go up. 
(Note: use this only for investors who donÕt lead rounds) 
Creating urgency is a good thing, but remember: you must be 
credible. Otherwise, it can back
Þ
re on you and your reputation. 
 

                       
CHAPTER SIX 
What to do after an 
investor verbally 
commits 
An investor may tell you Ò Yes, I want to invest Ó but the hard work is 
not over yet. Here are some things we recommend you do before 
you of
Þ
cially accept their money, along with expectations about 
what happens next.  
Do your due diligence on 
investors 
 
It Õs normal for early-stage startups to grow for 7-10 years before 
getting acquired or creating an IPO.This means that founders will 
interact with their investors for a long time.As Eric puts it, youÕre 

                       
Ògrowing old together,Ó and most of  us want to grow old with 
people we like and trust. 
Before you of
Þ
cially accept money from an investor, you need to do 
your due diligence.You donÕt want to get into business with the 
wrong people. Here is an example of  why Drew (founder) shouldnÕt 
have accepted money fromJason (investor).  
!
Jason called and emailed DrewALL the time.Way too much for 
DrewÕs comfort level. Other times, when Drew emailed him for 
help or advice,Jason didnÕt reply for weeks. 
!
Jason had promised to introduce Drew to other angel investors 
but never ful
Þ
lled that promise. 
!
Jason told Drew that he wasnÕt ready to raise another round, 
but never explained why. 
Meanwhile, DrewÕs founder friends sawJasonÕs name listed as his 
investor on Crunchbase.They went out of  their way to share 
un
ß
attering stories of  their experiences working with him. But it was 
too late for Drew to reverse his decision to work withJason. 
He could have avoided the drama if  he didnÕt skip a critical part of  
the fundraising process Ð conducting 
investor reference calls.
 
Investor reference calls are phone calls with other founders who 
have worked with your prospective investor.These reference calls 
usually take 10 minutes and will probably tell you everything you 

                       
need to know.Trust us, putting in the time to complete this step will 
help you avoid toxic investors and save you years of  pain. 
 
 
How to 
Þ
nd investor references
 
First, ask your investor for two references. Drew can ask:
 ÒHeyJason, 
are there two founders youÕve worked with that I can speak to? I want 
to learn more about the relationships you have with your founders.Ó
 
Next, we recommend 
Þ
nding two more founder references outside 
of  the names that the investor gave you.Why? Because an investor 
will give you the names of  two founders that he feels con
Þ
dent will 
give him a good review.  
But you want a less biased source. So how do you 
Þ
nd the other 
founders? Here are two methods that weÕve seen work well: 
1.
At the end of  your call with the 
Þ
rst referred founder, ask them 
if  they can refer you to another person who has worked with 
the investor.This is the easiest way to get a sense of  whoÕs 
within the orbit of  the investor that youÕre considering taking 
capital from. 
2.
Look at LinkedIn and other investor databases, and email 
founders who have worked with that investor.YouÕd be 
surprised at how effective a cold outreach is when youÕre doing 
investor due diligence. Founders are eager to help other 
founders when they can. 

                       
What to ask in your reference calls
 
YouÕve now set up several calls.What should you ask these founders 
about the investors youÕre thinking of  working with? Scott Cook, the 
founder of  Intuit, recommended two key questions. 
ÒOn a scale of  1-10, 10 being perfect and 1 being catastrophic, how 
would you rank this person?Ó  
Expect the founder to say 8 or 9.They will likely list a canned 
response of  how helpful or awesome the investor has been so far. 
Founders want to be cordial and not speak poorly of  anyoneÕs 
character.This is where our next question is extra critical.  
Ò What would this person need to do to become a 10?Ó 
Most people arenÕt prepared for this introspective question.That's 
when youÕll hear more honest answers.  
$
ÒI wish Quinn was a more strategic thinker.Ó 
$
ÒI wish Mohit was more responsive.Ó 
$
ÒI thinkAvery goes on vacation too much.Ó 
When to conduct investor reference calls
 
Do your investor reference callsAFTER the investor commits and 
BEFORE you accept. DonÕt waste your time doing investor reference 
calls before theyÕve even committed because it might be a wasted 

                       
effort. DonÕt leave it for after youÕve accepted their offer because 
once youÕre locked in, it Õs important to honor your commitments.  
This is why doing your investor due diligence between these two 
stages is ideal.Any good investor will give you enough time to 
conduct these calls because that is what a responsible steward of  
capital should do. 
DonÕt skip the references as Drew did.YouÕre starting a long-term 
relationship with your investors. Spending a little extra effort at the 
beginning may save you a lot of  pain down the road.  
What to expect when youÕre 
expectingVC funding
 
When you accept money from aVC, thereÕs a checklist of  things that 
they need to verify before they're legally allowed to wire money to 
you.Things like: 
!
Certi
Þ
cate of  incorporation 
!
Bylaws 
!
Board consents 
!
Founder stock purchase agreements 
!
Option plans 
!
409a valuations 
!
Cap tables 

                       
And more documents.This can get more complex as you raise 
larger amounts of  money.We recommend working with an attorney 
to make sure everything goes smoothly.  
Here are some other things you should expect.
 
VCs may run a background check
 
It Õs pretty common forVCs to run background checks on founders 
before investing.They want to know if  the founder has a criminal 
background or any active lawsuits that could put the business at risk.  
VCs might also run an OFAC background check.This is when they 
run the founder Õs name through theTreasury Department database. 
They want to make sure the founder isn't aligned with terrorism or 
on any ban lists, sanctions list, etc. If  the founder has a common 
name, this might trigger a false positive and they may need to clear 
things up with theirVC. 
VCs will ask you to sign a side letter
 
A 
side letter
 is a document outside of  the SAFE / convertible note 
that outlines additional rights.YouÕll likely see these two fromVCs: 
1.
Pro Rata Rights
 Ñ this allows theVC to invest more capital into 
your company in future fundraises typically on a ÒproportionalÓ 
basis (the right to reinvest the amount required to maintain the 
equivalent percentage of  equity as before). 

                       
2.
Most Favored Nation Rights (MFN)
 Ñ this means if  a different 
VC comes in later in the fundraising process and successfully 
negotiates a lower valuation than the previous investor(s), the 
previous investor(s) can re-set their valuation to the lower 
amount.  
Other things can happen in side letters, too.We recommend 
reviewing everything with an attorney before you sign. 
Call yourVC to con
Þ
rm wire details
 
This might sound strange but youÕll actually need to call yourVC to 
verify your details. No, texting isnÕt gonna cut it. Unfortunately, fraud 
and scams are always a possibility when it comes to wire transfers.  
Hop on the phone and verify your routing and account number to 
make sure the money goes to the right place. Please do this. 
Beware of VCs who donÕt actually have 
money
 
This isnÕt a good look forVCs, but there are investors who verbally 
commit to an investment who have no money. Or worse, investors 
who sign the of
Þ
cial documents but donÕt wire transfer you the 
money until a year laterÉ How is this possible? 

                       
This could be because theVC is still raising capital themselves.They 
can tell you theyÕd love to be your 
Þ
rst check in for $100,000.You go 
through the entire process outlined above.And then youÕre 
waitingÉ for weeks. Months. Maybe even an entire year.You call 
yourVC,
 Ò WhereÕs the money??Ó 
TheVC may say something like, 
Ò Well as you already know 
[aka they 
never told you], 
we are still in the process of  raising our 
Þ
rst fund. 
Once we can call down some money from investors, we will deploy it. 
Just be patient.Ó
 
This is a trap. HereÕs what you can do to catch signs before it 
happens.  
1.
Please please please conduct investor reference calls (donÕt 
skip this) 
2.
Seek clarity fromVCs by asking these questions: 
a.
When did you raise capital? 
b.
Are you still in the process of  fundraising? If  so, when is 
your anticipated 
Þ
rst close or second close? 
c.
How long should we expect from your commitment to 
receiving a wire? 
d.
How much money has been called by your current fund?  
Getting a verbal commitment is just the 
Þ
rst step toward actually 
receiving the money. Get your documents in order, con
Þ
rm your 
wire details, and do your due diligence.  

                       
What investors look for in a data 
room
 
A 
data room
 is where founders store their most important company 
documents, like: 
!
Incorporation documents 
!
Bylaws 
!
Cap table 
Basically, data rooms show that your startup is a legit company with 
actual employees. Super early-stage startups donÕt need a data 
room. But weÕve met great pre-seed and seed-stage startups that 
have a simple Dropbox or Google Drive folder with their key 
documents. 
For series-A and beyond, data rooms are important because they 
have a lot more documents, like: 
!
Financial projections 
!
Client contracts 
!
Board minutes 
!
Founder stock purchase agreements 
!
Option plan and stock option agreements 
!
409A valuation report 

                       
DoVCs actually need to look at all the documents? In full 
transparency, Elizabeth doesnÕt ask to see their data room when she 
personally invests in startups as an angel investor. But as aVC, she 
does ask for their incorporation papers to verify her investment is 
going to the company, not the founder Õs bank account. In addition, 
Hustle Fund veri
Þ
es the founders have vesting in place, a stock plan, 
and a cap table that makes sense. 
If  the company sends her a link to the data room anyway, she 
doesnÕt thoroughly review each document. Instead, she looks to see 
how the founders organize their data room. 
One of  my favorite quotes is 
ÒHow you do anything is how you do 
everything.Ó 
As such, we can expect that the way founders keep track 
of  their documents is re
ß
ective of  the way they run their companies. 
Impressive companies have everything organized and easy to 
Þ
nd 
!
All documents are 
Þ
led in the correct folders 
!
All important documents are included 
!
Everything is clearly labeled and easily searchable 
Messy companies have very little sorted out 
!
Nothing is organized 
!
Files are missing 
!
Documents arenÕt properly labeled 

                       
Sure, we might verify some of  your assets. But what Õs more important 
to us is seeing how you set up your Dropbox folder. Because how 
you do anything is how you do everything. 
What if  a founder doesnÕt have a data room?
 
In the early days, not having a data room isnÕt a big deal. But as a 
company matures, there are consequences for not having one. For 
example, we know a founder whose fundraising round stalled for 
months because his data room was missing half  of  the required 
documents. 
As a best practice, we send all companies we invest in a 
checklist of  
items
 to share with us before we wire them money.You can use our 
template below as an example of  what your investors might look for.  
Hustle FundÕs Document Requirements
 
We need fully executed and dated copies of  the following: 
!
Action of  Sole Incorporator 
!
Certi
Þ
cate of  Incorporation 
!
Bylaws 
!
Board Consents/Minutes 
!
Founder Stock PurchaseAgreements 
!
Option Plan and Stock OptionAgreements (if  any) 
!
409AValuation Report (if  any) 

                       
!
CapitalizationTable (if  any) 
!
Proprietary Information and InvestmentsAssignment 
Agreements (PIIAs) 
Some of  these items like a 409A doc or cap table may be overkill, 
but the fundamentals are there.Any startup lawyer can easily 
provide this to a company. 
HereÕs how youÕll actually receive 
the money
 
In September 2022, Hustle Fund raised $46M for Fund III.You must 
think that weÕre sitting on top of  the world with all that cash in the 
bank, right? Except we donÕt have $46M in our checking account, 
even though we raised that money. 
How the heck does that work?ThereÕs a process weÕve gotta go 
through called 
capital calls
.A capital call is the process by which 
VCs get access to the money they fundraised from their LPs. 
WhenVCs have a deal that Õs ready to fund, they call down a 
percentage of  the money that their LPs committed to our fund. Once 
theVCs have received the cash, theyÕre able to wire the appropriate 
amount to the founders.  
The norm inVC is to ask for little portions of  their funds several times 
each year. But if  they havenÕt called enough to fund all the startups 

                       
theyÕve committed to, theVC may need to make an additional 
capital call, which can take a few weeks or even months. 
Why does the process work like this?
 
Imagine we received all $46M that we raised upfront and we issued 
a $50k check to a founder.That means $45,950,000 is left sitting in 
our checking account.That Õs money not being put to work. Maybe 
not even earning any interest. 
That money could be back in our LPsÕ hands to generate more cash. 
They can invest in index funds or real estate or something else as 
they wait for us to fund deals. It makes sense forVCs to not have all 
the money sitting idle in their bank accounts. But this means the 
capital call process takes time, and it Õs often the most common 
reason for delays in founders receiving money fromVCs.  
Every time a fund calls down money, they need to 
!
write an investment memo 
!
document why weÕre investing 
!
inform our LPs that we have a deal that Õs ready to fund 
Basically theyÕre asking their LPs ÒPlease give us some money that 
we raised from you so we can fund this awesome startup.Ó Money is 
normally called down by percentages. So our fund admin (who 
manages cash 
ß
ow) may tell our LPs that they want to call down 1% 

                       
($460,000) from our Fund III. Or they want to call down 10% 
($4,600,000). 
A typical capital call takes two weeks.And there's a two-week grace 
period window for each LP to send the money to theVC fund, which 
can cause more delays.At Hustle Fund, we have a different kind of  
capital call structure.We call a little bit more money than we 
normally need at any given time so we can wire money faster since 
we do a lot of  deals.That process is slowly starting to become the 
norm, but it's still infrequent. 
Delays are somewhat common but it is rare for an LP to completely 
miss or ignore a capital call.To spare you the details, there are 
severe consequences to the LP if  this happens. Plus it massively 
damages their reputation. Be patient when waiting to receive the 
money. If  thereÕs a delay, youÕll know that it Õs likely because of  the 
capital call process. 
What to say to your team after a 
successful fundraise
 
Once you complete a successful fundraise, it Õs best practice to 
communicate expectations with your team. Be sure to cover: 
1.
What youÕre gonna do with the money 
2.
How these funds affect your runway 

                       
3.
How this could be your last fundraise, everÉ  
1.What are you going to do with the money?
 
YouÕve pitched a roadmap to investors on what youÕre going to do 
with this cash. Now it Õs time to bring your team up to speed on what 
youÕve promised. 
Will you hire more employees? Boost your marketing efforts? Buy 
new of
Þ
ce chairs for your team? Be super clear on how the money 
will be spent.Then actually do those things. 
  
2. How these funds affect your runway
 
You want to explain how these funds are going to affect your 
companyÕs runway and the timing of  your next fundraise.Tell your 
team what milestones you need to hit before the next fundraise.  
Imagine I had a company called Quantus Solutions that just raised 
$2M. I told investors that IÕd generate $10M in revenue with 20 
enterprise clients within 12 months. My plan is to raise the next 
round of  funding only when I accomplish this milestone.We 
Employees might feel this is a good time to 
mention that they want raises. It Õd be smart to 
prepare for these potential conversations. 

                       
currently have 18-24 months of  runway so we have some buffer in 
case we donÕt hit $10M in 12 months. But the goal is crystal clear. 
Founders often forget to share this crucial piece of  info with their 
team.They usually go out for a nice dinner and celebrate.Then 
everyone just goes back to work. But your team needs to be in the 
loop.Transparency builds trust. Share how much runway the 
company has left and what the team needs to achieve together to 
get everyone on the same page. 
3.This could be our last fundraiseÉ
 
The 
Þ
nal thing you should share is the most cheerful point of  all: 
everything could go in 
ß
ames tomorrow.  
It Õs currentlyJanuary 2024.WeÕre in a downturn right now. Raising 
capital has gotten harder. Maybe the economy will get worse.We 
donÕt really know what Õs going to happen.With all this uncertainty, 
it Õs hard to predict whether or not youÕll be able to raise money in 
the future. So the goal here is to stay alive.  
ThereÕs no need to incite panic, but help your team understand that 
every dollar is precious.Just because you have more of  it now than 
you did a few months ago doesnÕt mean you can waste it. Raising 
money after you achieve your big milestones is not guaranteed.  

                       
Continue to be lean, disciplined, and resourceful. DonÕt forget your 
bootstrapper roots. It might even be easier to ignore the fact that 
you have all this money in the bank.Whatever helps you stay alive. 
 

                       
Conclusion 
Wow Ð you read to the very end! 
  
This book is everything we wished we had known when we 
Þ
rst 
started to fundraise for our startups.We hope it helps you build a 
thriving business that brings you joy and helps you leave your mark 
on the world.  
Hustle Fund invests in hilarious early-stage startups. If  that Õs you, tell 
us what youÕre hustling on at 
hustlefund.vc
 
We write a weekly newsletter all about fundraising and scaling 
startups. Read more great content on our 
blog
 and watch our 
Uncapped Notes series on 
YouTube
.  
Meet our community at our 
online and in-person events
. 
Did you like the book? Let us know onTwitter!You can 
Þ
nd us 
@mrtampham
, 
@ericbahn
, 
@dunkhippo33
, 
@shiyankoh
, 
@kerademars
, 
@hustlefundvc
 
Do you know other founders who needs this book? Share this link: 
bit.ly/RaiseMillions
 
!
 
Questions? Email us at 
hello@hustlefundvc.com
. 
 

                       
Cheat Sheet
 
This is a high-level summary of  the bookÕs key takeaways. Refer back 
to this page when you need a quick answer. Or go to 
bit.ly/
DunkyHippocorn
 to ask our chatbot any questions about the book.  
Fundraising 101
 
!
Not every business needs to raise money. It can be 
advantageous to fundraise if  your goal is to eventually get 
acquired or go public.  
!
If  you're a pre-seed founder, we recommend working with 
angel investors.TheyÕre more accessible, will give you money 
faster, and often roll up their sleeves to help your startup. If  
youÕre in the later stages,VCs can provide you with more 
money and direction when youÕre scaling fast. 
!
The amount of  money you should raise is based on several 
factors: what industry youÕre in, how experienced your team is, 
and how the market is doing.Typically speaking, weÕve seen 
founders raise $100K - $1M at the pre-seed stage, $500K - $3M 
at the seed stage, $1M-$5M at the post-seed stage, and $5M - 
$10M at the SeriesA stage.  

                       
!
Incorporate your company as a Delaware C-Corp and take 
advantage of  many bene
Þ
ts, including saving money on taxes 
through the Quali
Þ
ed Small Business Stock (QSBS). 
!
Raising money through post-money SAFEs is often the easiest 
and most cost-effective way to fundraise for early startups. Use 
a tool like 
Pulley
 to keep track of  your cap table at all times. 
!
How much equity you give up will depend largely on the 
amount your startup raises and the valuation at which you raise. 
In general, it Õs best to save as much equity as you can to 
allocate it to people who can meaningfully help push the 
business forward like investors (through capital and strategic 
help) and key employees.  
!
Determining your valuation is more of  an art than a science, 
especially if  you have an early-stage startup. Beyond factors 
like revenue, team, and market, what is oftentimes most 
important is investor demand. 
!
Be aware of  the current market conditions. Do your research on 
how the market is before you fundraise.This will impact your 
fundraising strategy. 
!
The best months to fundraise are fromJanuary - May and 
September - November.Avoid fundraising inAugust and 
during theThanksgiving - NewYear period.  

                       
Craft your pitch deck  
 
 
!
Team: Investors focus heavily on the team, especially in pre-
seed companies. Emphasize your relevant skills and 
background. Show investors that you have a strong relationship 
with your co-founder. 
!
Problem:VCs want to see your business solve a signi
Þ
cant 
problem that affects a large group of  people. Demonstrate 
how you arrived at your problem statement and how much you 
deeply understand your customersÕ pain points. 
!
Solution: Focus on differentiation, framing the story, and 
product vision.You can differentiate your business by 
highlighting a unique approach or market niche.The way you 
frame the story should make your startup attractive even in less 
favored industries.The product vision should outline future 
goals to get investors excited rather than where you are right 
now.  
!
Market:VCs look for startups that can give them a 100x return 
while angel investors have different, often lower, expectations. 
If  you raise money fromVCs, make sure the market can be 
measured in billions of  dollars. Consider raising from angel 
investors if  your market is smaller, and have conversations 
about what success looks like for them. 

                       
!
Traction:Think about traction more in terms of  ability to 
execute rather than speci
Þ
c numbers.Your numbers donÕt have 
to be great, but early-stage investors want to see that you can 
move quickly and experiment with different tactics. Include a 
go-to-market (GTM) strategy that includes early users, pilot 
programs, and/or distribution channels. 
!
Keep your pitch deck short. It should be brief, ideally 5-10 
slides, and easy to understand.You should be able to pitch to 
someone outside of  your industry and not leave them 
scratching their heads. If  they 
Þ
nd your pitch too complicated, 
that Õs a sign to simplify your deck.  
!
Designing an effective pitch deck can have a huge impact on 
your fundraising efforts. Invest time to make it great.  
Build relationships with investors
 
!
Networking isn't about exchanging business cards and playing 
golf  together. It Õs about forming authentic friendships in the 
way youÕd normally form friendships. People prefer doing 
business with people they like and trust (aka their friends).  
!
You can meet investors anywhere. Start with people you know, 
and consider people you normally wouldnÕt expect to be an 
investor (like your optometrist). Connect with them online 

                       
through LinkedIn,Twitter, andAngelist. Or of
ß
ine through live 
events. 
!
Ask for warm intros: Investors are more likely to take a meeting 
with someone who has been recommended to them. If  you 
donÕt know anyone, one tactic is to build a relationship with 
one of  the investor Õs portfolio company CEOs. 
!
Send cold emails: Research relevant investors in your industry 
and send them a short email. Include a line about your 
business, a few bullet points about your value proposition and 
traction, and end with a clear call to action.  
!
Have an elevator pitch ready: It should be concise, impress 
with a few key facts, and end with a speci
Þ
c call to action. It's 
not about closing money on the spot but more about driving 
enough interest to have a proper meeting.  
Pitch your startup 
 
 
!
Have your 
Þ
rstVC meeting on Zoom. Show your real 
background. DonÕt worry about presenting your pitch deck. 
Listen to their story and weave their comments into your pitch.  
!
Expect questions about your team, the problem youÕre solving, 
your solution, market size, customer acquisition, traction, and 
fundraising plans. Look at tough questions as a sign that 

                       
investors are interested. Be open to feedback, show a growth 
mindset, and avoid being defensive. 
!
Follow up right after the call reiterating what you both talked 
about and send over any promised assets. 
!
Create an investor CRM to organize your investor contacts, 
track interactions, and manage follow-ups.  
!
Send an investor newsletter to all investors and potential 
investors.This builds trust with your current investors and it acts 
as a driver to fundraise from potential investors. Be consistent 
in sending out the newsletter, whether monthly or quarterly. 
!
Some investors may give you a vague pass. It Õs OK to ask for 
speci
Þ
c feedback from investors who say no. If  youÕre not 
receiving helpful advice, lean on trusted founders for honest 
feedback. 
!
Follow up, follow up, follow up. Be persistent in following up 
with investors. Sometimes investors are busy. Send another 
message until you get a clear yes or no. 

                       
What happens after an investor 
says ÒyesÓ 
 
 
 
 
!
Before you commit to the wrong person, conduct investor 
reference calls before you accept their offer.You can 
Þ
nd 
references by asking the investor directly, searching on 
LinkedIn, and asking the people youÕve talked to for other 
references.  
!
YouÕll need to prepare necessary legal documents like 
incorporation certi
Þ
cates, bylaws, founder agreements, etc. Be 
aware thatVCs may conduct background checks and require 
additional documents like side letters. Once youÕre in the clear, 
con
Þ
rm wire details over a phone call to avoid fraud. Lastly, 
beware of  cashlessVCs. 
!
A data room re
ß
ects how founders manage their company, so 
keep it well-organized, especially for seriesA and beyond. 
Having a messy data room can stall fundraising and be a bad 
sign about company management. Having a Dropbox folder 
with your key documents is a great start for your data room 
!
The capital call process is whereVCs call down funds from their 
LPs.This might cause delays in founders receiving money, 
which is why founders should ask insightful questions about 
the fund's status and available capital. 

                       
!
Share with your team the plans on how your new funds will 
impact the companyÕs runway and strategy. Remind the team to 
stay scrappy because fundraising successfully in the future is 
not always guaranteed. 
Resources 
 
 
!
Pitch deck eBook with Deck Doctors
 
!
Cap table template
 
!
Investor CRM template
 
!
Investor newsletter template
 
!
Hustle Fund Investment Checklist
 
 

                       
Acknowledgments
 
A huge thank you to my manager and editor, Kera DeMars. She's 
coached me to be a sharper writer and a stronger storyteller. Kera 
reviewed this book with extra love to make sure it would be a long-
lasting resource.Thank you for trusting me with this project. 
I 
Þ
rst met Eric Bahn and ElizabethYin when I interned for an early 
startup they advised. I had no real skills or connections, but they 
invested their valuable time to mentor me over the years.Thank you 
for seeing potential in me that I didnÕt yet realize. 
Thank you to the mentors who took a chance on me, especially 
Jayson Gaignard,AndrewWarner, Hung Pham, and Kevin Lee.Thank 
you to my coaches Kat Koh and MelissaWong for keeping me 
aligned whenever IÕve felt lost (which was often).  
Thank you to my best friend Chloe Lim for being my biggest 
cheerleader throughout my ups and downs, and modeling what it Õs 
like to be an amazing friend and human.  
Lastly, thank you to the countless number of  people who have 
impacted my life in both big and small ways Ð I am forever grateful.  
With 
"
, 
Tam Pham 

                       
Glossary 
 
 
 
Angel investor: 
An angel investor is an individual who has 
accredited investor status.That means they have a million dollars of  
investable assets or a really large salary.Angels donÕt have to be 
techies or experts in your industry.They could be your dentist or a 
friendÕs mom. 
Cap table:
A cap table is a spreadsheet that has a list of  all the 
people and entities that own pieces of  your company.  
Capital calls:
A capital call is the process of  venture capitalists calling 
down money from their Limited Partners (LPs) to give that capital to 
the startups they want to invest in. Capital calls can be a common 
reason for delays in founders receiving money fromVCs.  
Common and preferred shares:
 Common shares and preferred 
shares are two types of  stock that companies can issue, and they 
come with different rights, bene
Þ
ts, and risks.  
Data room: 
A data room is a place where founders store their most 
important company documents, like incorporation documents, 
bylaws, and your cap table. Investors might verify some of  your 
assets but what Õs more important to them is seeing how well youÕve 
organized your data room.  

                       
Dilution:
 Dilution is the decrease in an existing shareholder's 
ownership percentage of  a company as a result of  the company 
issuing more shares.  
Down round:
A startup on a good trajectory should see its post-
money valuation increase with every new 
Þ
nancing round. If  the 
post-money valuation goes down round-over-round, it Õs called a 
down round and this could signal the business is in peril. 
Employee stock option pool (ESOP): 
Investors will often expect you 
to create an employee stock option pool (ESOP).This means setting 
aside some shares for your employees to incentivize them to do 
great work.This typically represents 10% of  the pie and is something 
to potentially negotiate when you raise money from investors 
because the ESOP will further dilute the cap table.  
Equity:
 Equity is ownership in the company. So if  an investor has 5% 
of  the equity in your business, they own 5% of  your company.You 
want to strategically give equity to key people Ð investors, advisors, 
and employees Ð to help grow the value of  the company. Beware of  
giving away too much because a small amount of  equity in the 
beginning can be worth millions of  dollars down the line.  
Exponential growth: 
when your revenue is increasing at a faster rate 
than your incurring costs. Investors love investing in startups that 
have the potential to scale fast through exponential growth. 

                       
Fully diluted cap table:
 If  the founders, investors, and key 
employees stay on until their vesting schedule is complete, then 
youÕll have a fully diluted cap table. Everyone who was allocated 
shares will have the option to purchase their shares.  
Go-to-market (GTM) strategy: 
Your go-to-market strategy is your 
plan on how youÕre going to acquire customers. Investors want to 
see your thought process behind distribution and how youÕll 
execute your plan.  
Investor CRM: 
CRM stands for customer relationship management 
and is a tool that keeps track of  your important contacts in one 
place.Think Salesforce, HubSpot, or Pipedrive. But a CRM can be as 
simple as a Google Sheet. Founders should have a CRM to organize 
their fundraising efforts.  
Investor newsletter: 
This is a monthly (or quarterly) update on what Õs 
happening in your startup that keeps your existing investors 
engaged and acts as a fundraising tool for prospective investors.  
Investor reference calls: 
These are phone calls with people who 
have worked with your prospective investor. Founders should do 
their due diligence before accepting an investor Õs money to verify 
the investor is someone whom theyÕd like to work with long-term. 
Lead investor:
A lead investor is the main investor in a funding 
round.They usually put half  or more of  the money into the round. 

                       
Limited Partners (LPs): 
A venture capital 
Þ
rm raises money from 
investors called Limited Partners (LPs).ThenVCs invest that capital 
into startups and return money to their LPs in the event of  an exit. 
Pre-money valuation: 
The pre-money valuation is the valuation of  
the business before it receives any outside investment.This is the 
number negotiated between founders andVCs that informs how 
much the investors will need to put in to purchase their desired 
equity stake. 
Pre-seed: 
The pre-seed stage is the 
Þ
rst round of  funding that 
founders raise. It Õs also known as an Òangel roundÓ or Òfriends and 
family roundÓ. 
Post-money valuation:
The post-money valuation is the startupÕs 
valuation after receiving outside investment.  
Post-seed: 
The post-seed stage is a gray area between seed and 
seriesA.YouÕve made major progress as a seed-stage company but 
not quite enough to raise a SeriesA.You may hear people call this 
round the Òmango seed stageÓ, Òavocado seed stageÓ, or Òpre-series 
AÓ.  
Quali
Þ
ed Small Business Stock (QSBS):
This may help you become 
exempt from paying federal taxes when your company exits. Only 
Delaware C Corporations that have been around for at least 
Þ
ve 
years can qualify for QSBS. See DelawareÕs of
Þ
cial page for the full 
details. 

                       
SAFEs: 
SAFE stands for Òsimple agreement for future equity.ÓA SAFE 
isnÕt equity you sell to your investors, rather it Õs the promise of  equity 
in the future.Think of  SAFEs almost like an IOU Ð youÕre not issuing 
any equity yetÉ but once you have an equity 
Þ
nancing round, an 
acquisition, or an IPO, that SAFE will get converted into equity.  
Seed: 
The seed stage is where you're validating the market demand 
for your product and making solid traction. 
SeriesA: 
The SeriesA stage is when youÕve found product-market 
Þ
t 
and can scale your business.You have strong evidence that you can 
capture a decent share of  the huge market.YouÕve shown that you 
can recruitA-players and have a solid team that can execute your 
vision. 
Side letter:
A side letter is a document outside of  the SAFE / 
convertible note that outlines additional rights.  
Startup valuation:
A startup valuation is the 
Þ
nancial value of  a 
startupÕs equity at a given point in time.  
Unit economics:
 the cost of  acquiring and onboarding a customer 
compared to how much money you make from that customer. 
Vesting:
 Founders and employees earn shares by working for the 
startup, but their shares vest across 4 years.This means they donÕt 
get all the shares upfront when they start/join the company.They 
have to work at the company for 4 years to get all of  them.Vesting 

                       
prevents people who only work for the company for a short period 
of  time to walk away with considerable equity. 
 
Who else needs to read this?  
Share this book with a friend 
#
  
bit.ly/RaiseMillions

